Copyright © Timothy E. Clontz 1999  All rights reserved.
The Acts of the 
Apostles

1
	1 In the first book, O Theophilus, I wrote about all that Jesus 
began to do and to teach, 2 until the day when he was taken up to heaven, 
after he had given orders through the Holy Spirit to the apostles whom he 
had chosen. 3 To these he also presented himself alive after his suffering, 
by many convincing proofs, appearing to them over a period of forty days 
and speaking of the things concerning the kingdom of God. 4 And while 
staying with them, he commanded them not to leave Jerusalem, but to wait 
for what the Father had promised, "Which," he said, "you heard of from 
me; 5 for John baptized with water, but before many days you will be 
baptized with the Holy Spirit." 
	6 So when they had come together, they asked him, "Lord, are 
you at this time going to restore the kingdom to Israel?" 7 He said to 
them, "It is not for you to know times or seasons which the Father has 
fixed by his own authority. 8 But you will receive power when the Holy 
Spirit has come upon you; and you shall be my witnesses both in 
Jerusalem, and in all Judea and Samaria, and even to the ends of the 
earth." 9 And after he had said this, as they were looking on, he was lifted 
up, and a cloud took him out of their sight. 10 And as they were gazing 
intently into the sky while he was going, behold, two men in white 
clothing stood beside them. 11 They also said, "Men of Galilee, why do 
you stand looking into the sky? This Jesus, who has been taken up from 
you into heaven, will come in just the same way as you have watched him 
go into heaven." 
	12 Then they returned to Jerusalem from the mount called 
Olivet, which is near Jerusalem, a Sabbath day's journey away. 13 And 
when they had entered, they went up to the upper room, where they were 
staying; Peter and John and James and Andrew, Philip and Thomas, 
Bartholomew and Matthew, James the son of Alphaeus and Simon the 
Zealot and Judas the son of James. 14 All these with one mind devoted 
themselves to prayer, along with the women and Mary the mother of 
Jesus, and with his brothers. 
	15 In those days Peter stood up among the brethren (the 
company of persons was in all about a hundred and twenty), and said, 16 
"Brethren, the scripture had to be fulfilled, which the Holy Spirit spoke 
beforehand by the mouth of David, concerning Judas who was guide to 
those who arrested Jesus. 17 For he was counted among us and received 
his share in this ministry." 18 (Now this man bought a field with the 
reward of his wickedness; and falling headlong, he burst open in the 
middle and all his intestines gushed out. 19 And it became known to all 
the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so that the field was called in their language 
Akeldama, that is, Field of Blood.) 20 For it is written in the book of 
Psalms, 
	'Let his homestead be made desolate, 
		and let there be no one to dwell in it'; 
and, 
	'let another man take his office.' 
21 Therefore it is necessary that of the men who have accompanied us all 
the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us, 22 beginning from 
the baptism of John until the day when he was taken up from us—one of 
these men must become with us a witness to his resurrection." 23 So they 
put forward two men, Joseph called Barsabbas (who was also called 
Justus), and Matthias. 24 And they prayed and said, "You, Lord, who 
know the hearts of all men, show which one of these two you have chosen 
25 to take the place in this ministry and apostleship from which Judas 
turned aside, to go to his own place." 26 And they cast lots for them, and 
the lot fell to Matthias; and he was added to the eleven apostles. 
2
	1 When the day of Pentecost had come, they were all together in 
one place. 2 And suddenly there came from heaven a sound like the rush 
of a violent wind, and it filled the whole house where they were sitting. 3 
And there appeared to them tongues as of fire distributing themselves, and 
they rested on each one of them. 4 And they were all filled with the Holy 
Spirit and began to speak in other tongues, as the Spirit gave them 
utterance. 
	5 Now there were Jews living in Jerusalem, devout men from 
every nation under heaven. 6 And at this sound the crowd came together, 
and they were bewildered, because each one heard them speaking in his 
own language. 7 They were amazed and wondered, saying, "Are not all 
these who are speaking Galileans? 8 And how is it that we hear them, 
each of us in his own native language? 9 Parthians and Medes and 
Elamites, and residents of Mesopotamia, Judea and Cappadocia, Pontus 
and Asia, 10 Phrygia and Pamphylia, Egypt and the parts of Libya around 
Cyrene, and visitors from Rome, both Jews and proselytes, 11 Cretans 
and Arabs—we hear them in our own tongues speaking of the mighty 
deeds of God." 12 And they were all amazed and perplexed, saying to one 
another, "What does this mean?" 13 But others were mocking and said, 
"They are full of sweet wine." 
	14 But Peter, taking his stand with the eleven, raised his voice 
and addressed them: "Men of Judea and all you who live in Jerusalem, let 
this be known to you and give heed to my words. 15 For these men are 
not drunk, as you suppose, since it is only the third hour of the day; 16 
but this is what was spoken by the prophet Joel: 
17	'And in the last days it shall be, God says, 
	that I will pour out my Spirit upon all flesh, 
		and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, 
	and your young men shall see visions, 
		and your old men shall dream dreams; 
18	even on my servants, both men and women, 
		I will pour out my Spirit in those days, 
			and they shall prophesy. 
19	And I will show wonders in heaven above 
		and signs on the earth below, 
			blood, and fire, and vapor of smoke. 
20	The sun will be turned into darkness 
		and the moon into blood, 
			before the great and glorious day 
				of the Lord shall come. 
21	And it shall be that everyone 
		who calls on the name of the Lord 
			will be saved.' 
	22 "Men of Israel, listen to these words: Jesus of Nazareth, a 
man attested to you by God with miracles and wonders and signs which 
God did through him in your midst, as you yourselves know—23 this 
man, delivered over by the predetermined plan and foreknowledge of God, 
you nailed to a cross by the hands of godless men and put him to death. 
24 But God raised him up, having loosed the agony of death, because it 
was impossible for him to be held in its power. 25 For David says 
concerning him, 
	'I saw the Lord always before me; 
		for he is at my right hand, so that I will not be shaken. 
26	Therefore my heart was glad and my tongue rejoiced; 
		moreover my flesh also will live in hope, 
27	because you will not abandon my soul to hades, 
		nor let your Holy One see decay. 
28	You have made known to me the ways of life; 
		you will make me full of gladness with your presence.' 
	29 "Brethren, I may say to you confidently of the patriarch David 
that he both died and was buried, and his tomb is with us to this day. 30 
And so, because he was a prophet, and knew that God had sworn with an 
oath to him that he would set one of his descendants on his throne, 31 he 
looked ahead and spoke of the resurrection of the Christ, 
	that he was not abandoned to hades, 
		nor did his flesh see decay. 
32 This Jesus God raised up again, and of that we are all witnesses. 33 
Being therefore exalted at the right hand of God, and having received 
from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, he has poured out this 
which you see and hear. 34 For David did not ascend into heaven, but he 
says himself: 
	'The Lord said to my Lord, 
	"Sit at my right hand, 
35		until I make your enemies a footstool 
			for your feet."' 
36 Therefore let all the house of Israel know for certain that God has 
made him both Lord and Christ, this Jesus whom you crucified." 
	37 Now when they heard this they were cut to the heart, and said 
to Peter and the rest of the apostles, "Brethren, what shall we do?" 38 
And Peter said to them, "Repent, and be baptized every one of you in the 
name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins; and you will receive 
the gift of the Holy Spirit. 39 For the promise is for you and your children 
and for all who are far off, for all whom the Lord our God will call to 
himself." 40 And he testified with many other words and exhorted them, 
saying, "Save yourselves from this perverse generation." 41 So those who 
received his word were baptized, and there were added that day about 
three thousand souls. 42 They devoted themselves to the apostles' 
teaching and to the fellowship, to the breaking of bread and to prayer. 
	43 Everyone was filled with awe; and many wonders and signs 
were done through the apostles. 44 And all who believed were together 
and had all things in common; 45 and they sold their possessions and 
goods and distributed them to all, as anyone had need. 46 And day by 
day, attending the temple together and breaking bread in their homes, they 
ate together with glad and sincere hearts, 47 praising God and having 
favor with all the people. And the Lord added to their number day by day 
those who were being saved. 
3
	1 Now Peter and John were going up to the temple at the hour of 
prayer, the ninth hour. 2 And a man lame from birth was being carried, 
whom they set down every day at the gate of the temple which is called 
Beautiful to beg alms of those who entered the temple. 3 When he saw 
Peter and John about to go into the temple, he asked for alms. 4 And 
Peter, along with John, directed his gaze at him, and said, "Look at us." 5 
And he gave them his attention, expecting to receive something from 
them. 6 But Peter said, "I do not have silver and gold, but I give you what 
I have; in the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, walk." 7 And taking him 
by the right hand, he raised him up; and immediately his feet and ankles 
were made strong. 8 With a leap he stood upright and began to walk; and 
he entered the temple with them, walking and leaping and praising God. 9 
And all the people saw him walking and praising God, 10 and they 
recognized him as the one who used to sit at the Beautiful Gate of the 
temple to beg alms, and they were filled with wonder and amazement at 
what had happened to him. 
	11 While he clung to Peter and John, all the people ran together 
to them in the porch called Solomon's, astounded. 12 And when Peter saw 
this he addressed the people, "Men of Israel, why do you wonder at this, 
or why do you stare at us, as if by our own power or piety we had made 
him walk? 13 The God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, the God of our 
fathers, has glorified his servant Jesus, the one whom you delivered and 
disowned in the presence of Pilate, when he had decided to release him. 
14 But you disowned the Holy and Righteous One and asked for a 
murderer to be granted to you, 15 but killed the Author of life, whom God 
raised from the dead. To this we are witnesses. 16 And his name, by faith 
in his name, has made this man strong whom you see and know; and the 
faith which comes through Jesus has given him perfect health in the 
presence of you all. 17 And now, brethren, I know that you acted in 
ignorance, as did also your rulers. 18 But what God foretold by the mouth 
of all the prophets, that his Christ would suffer, he thus fulfilled. 19 
Repent therefore, and turn again, so that your sins may be wiped out, that 
times of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord, 20 and that 
he may send the Christ appointed for you, Jesus, 21 whom heaven must 
receive until the time for establishing all that God spoke by the mouth of 
his holy prophets from long ago. 22 Moses said, 'The Lord God will raise 
up for you a prophet like me from your brethren; you shall listen to 
everything he tells you. 23 And it shall be that every soul that does not 
listen to that prophet will be destroyed from among the people.' 24 And 
likewise, all the prophets who have spoken, from Samuel and those who 
came afterwards, also announced these days. 25 You are the sons of the 
prophets and of the covenant which God made with your fathers, saying 
to Abraham, 'And in your seed all the families of the earth shall be 
blessed.' 26 For you first, God raised up his servant and sent him to bless 
you by turning every one of you from your wicked ways."
4
	1 And as they were speaking to the people, the priests and the 
captain of the temple guard and the Sadducees came up to them, 2 being 
greatly disturbed because they were teaching the people and proclaiming 
in Jesus the resurrection from the dead. 3 And they seized them and put 
them in jail until the next day, for it was already evening. 4 But many of 
those who heard the message believed; and the number of the men came 
to about five thousand. 
	5 On the next day, their rulers and elders and scribes were 
gathered together in Jerusalem; 6 and Annas the high priest was there, and 
Caiaphas and John and Alexander, and all who were of the high-priestly 
family. 7 And when they had set them in the midst, they began to inquire, 
"By what power or by what name did you do this?" 8 Then Peter, filled 
with the Holy Spirit, said to them, "Rulers of the people and elders, 9 if 
we are being examined today for a good deed done to a cripple, as to how 
this man has been healed, 10 be it known to you all, and to all the people 
of Israel, that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you 
crucified, whom God raised from the dead, by him this man stands before 
you healed. 11 He is 
	the stone which was rejected by you, the builders, 
		but which has become the chief cornerstone. 
12 And there is salvation in no one else, for there is no other name under 
heaven given among men by which we must be saved." 13 Now when they 
saw the boldness of Peter and John, and perceived that they were 
uneducated, common men, they were astonished; and they recognized that 
they had been with Jesus. 14 And seeing the man who had been healed 
standing with them, they had nothing to say in reply. 15 But when they 
had ordered them to leave the Council, they conferred with one another, 
16 saying, "What shall we do with these men? For that a noteworthy 
miracle has been performed through them is apparent to all the 
inhabitants of Jerusalem, and we cannot deny it. 17 But in order that it 
may spread no further among the people, let us warn them to speak no 
longer to any one in this name." 18 Then they called them in again and 
commanded them not to speak or teach at all in the name of Jesus. 19 But 
Peter and John answered them, "Whether it is right in the sight of God to 
listen to you rather than to God, you must judge; 20 for we cannot stop 
speaking about what we have seen and heard." 21 And when they had 
further threatened them, they let them go, finding no way to punish them, 
because of the people; for all the people were praising God for what had 
happened. 22 For the man on whom this sign of healing was performed 
was more than forty years old. 
	23 When they had been released, they went to their own 
companions and reported all that the chief priests and the elders had said 
to them. 24 And when they heard this, they lifted their voices to God 
together and said, "Sovereign Lord, it is you who made the heaven and the 
earth and the sea, and everything in them, 25 who by the Holy Spirit, 
through the mouth of our father David your servant, said, 
	'Why did the gentiles rage, 
		and the peoples plot futile things? 
26	The kings of the earth took their stand, 
		and the rulers were gathered together 
			against the Lord and against his Christ.' 
27 For truly in this city there were gathered together against your holy 
servant Jesus, whom you anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, along 
with the Gentiles and the peoples of Israel, 28 to do whatever your hand 
and your plan had predestined to take place. 29 And now, Lord, look 
upon their threats, and grant to your servants to speak your word with all 
boldness, 30 while you stretch out your hand to heal, and signs and 
wonders take place through the name of your holy servant Jesus." 31 And 
when they had prayed, the place where they were gathered together was 
shaken; and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and spoke the word 
of God with boldness. 
	32 Now the company of those who believed were of one heart 
and soul, and no one claimed that any of the things which he possessed 
was his own, but they had everything in common. 33 And with great 
power the apostles gave their testimony to the resurrection of the Lord 
Jesus, and great grace was upon them all. 34 For there was not a needy 
person among them, For all who were owners of land or houses sold them 
and brought the proceeds of the sales 35 and laid it at the apostles' feet, 
and it was distributed to each as any had need. 36 Thus Joseph who was 
called by the apostles Barnabas (which means, Son of Encouragement) , a 
Levite, a native of Cyprus, 37 sold a field which he owned, and brought 
the money and laid it at the apostles' feet. 
5
	1 But a man named Ananias, with his wife Sapphira, sold a piece 
of property, 2 and with his wife's full knowledge he kept back some of the 
money for himself, and brought only a part and laid it at the apostles' feet. 
3 But Peter said, "Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart to lie to the 
Holy Spirit and to keep back some of the price of the land? 4 While it 
remained unsold, did it not remain your own? And after it was sold, was it 
not at your disposal? How is it that you have conceived this deed in your 
heart? You have not lied to men but to God." 5 When Ananias heard 
these words, he fell down and died. And great fear came upon all who 
heard of it. 6 The young men arose and wrapped him up, carried him out, 
and buried him. 7 After an interval of about three hours his wife came in, 
not knowing what had happened. 8 Peter said to her, "Tell me whether 
you sold the land for such and such a price." And she said, "Yes, that was 
the price." 9 Then Peter said to her, "How is it that you have agreed 
together to test the Spirit of the Lord? Look, the feet of those who have 
buried your husband are at the door, and they will carry you out." 10 
Immediately she fell down at his feet and died. When the young men came 
in they found her dead, and they carried her out and buried her beside her 
husband. 11 And great fear came upon the whole church, and upon all 
who heard of these things. 
	12 Now many signs and wonders were done among the people 
by the hands of the apostles. And they were all together in Solomon's 
Porch. 13 None of the rest dared join them, but the people held them in 
high honor. 14 And all the more believers in the Lord, multitudes of men 
and women, were constantly added to their number, 15 so that they even 
carried out the sick into the streets, and laid them on beds and pallets, so 
that as Peter came by at least his shadow might fall on some of them. 16 
The people also gathered from the towns around Jerusalem, bringing the 
sick and those afflicted with unclean spirits, and they were all healed. 
	17 But the high priest rose up and all who were with him, that is, 
the party of the Sadducees, and they were filled with jealousy. 18 They 
arrested the apostles and put them in the public jail. 19 But during the 
night an angel of the Lord opened the doors of the prison, and brought 
them out, and said, 20 "Go, stand and speak to the people in the temple 
the whole message of this Life." 21 And when they heard this, they 
entered into the temple about daybreak and began to teach. Now when the 
high priest and his associates came, they called the Council together, even 
all the Senate of the sons of Israel, and sent orders to the prison house for 
them to be brought. 22 But when the officers came, they did not find them 
in the prison, and they returned and reported back, 23 "We found the 
prison securely locked, and the guards standing at the doors; but when we 
opened them, we found no one inside." 24 Now when the captain of the 
temple guard and the chief priests heard these words, they were much 
perplexed about them, wondering what would come of this. 25 And 
someone came and told them, "Look! The men whom you put in prison 
are standing in the temple and teaching the people." 26 Then the captain 
went along with the officers and brought them back without violence, for 
they were afraid of the people, that they might be stoned. 
	27 When they had brought them, they set them before the 
council. The high priest questioned them, 28 saying, "We gave you strict 
orders not to teach in this name, and yet, you have filled Jerusalem with 
your teaching and intend to bring this man's blood upon us." 29 But Peter 
and the apostles answered, "We must obey God rather than men. 30 The 
God of our fathers raised Jesus—whom you had killed by hanging him on 
a tree. 31 God exalted him to his own right hand as Prince and Savior, to 
give repentance and forgiveness of sins to Israel. 32 We are witnesses of 
these things, and so is the Holy Spirit, whom God has given to those who 
obey him." 
	33 When they heard this, they were furious and wanted to kill 
them. 34 But a Pharisee in the council named Gamaliel, a teacher of the 
law, held in honor by all the people, stood up and ordered the men to be 
put outside for a while. 35 And he said to them, "Men of Israel, take care 
what you propose to do with these men. 36 For some time ago Theudas 
rose up, claiming to be somebody, and a group of about four hundred men 
joined him. But he was killed, and all who followed him were dispersed 
and came to nothing. 37 After this man, Judas the Galilean rose up in the 
days of the census and drew away some people after him; he too perished, 
and all those who followed him were scattered. 38 So in the present case I 
tell you, keep away from these men and let them alone, for if this plan or 
action is of men, it will fail; 39 but if it is of God, you will not be able to 
overthrow them; or else you may even be found fighting against God." 40 
So they took his advice, and they called the apostles in and had them 
flogged. Then they ordered them not to speak in the name of Jesus, and 
let them go. 41 Then they left the presence of the council, rejoicing that 
they had been counted worthy to suffer dishonor for the name. 42 And 
every day, in the temple and from house to house, they never stopped 
teaching and preaching Jesus as the Christ. 
6
	1 Now in those days when the number of disciples was 
increasing, the Hellenistic Jews among them complained against the 
native Hebrews because their widows were being overlooked in the daily 
distribution of food. 2 So the twelve summoned the congregation of the 
disciples and said, "It is not right for us to neglect the word of God in 
order to serve tables. 3 Therefore, brethren, pick out from among you 
seven men of good reputation, full of the Spirit and of wisdom, whom we 
may appoint to this duty. 4 But we will devote ourselves to prayer and to 
the ministry of the word." 5 And the statement pleased the whole 
congregation; and they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and of the Holy 
Spirit, and Philip, Prochorus, Nicanor, Timon, Parmenas and Nicolas, a 
proselyte from Antioch. 6 These they set before the apostles, and they 
prayed and laid their hands on them. 
	7 The word of God increased; and the number of the disciples 
multiplied greatly in Jerusalem, and a great many of the priests were 
obedient to the faith. 
	8 And Stephen, full of grace and power, did great wonders and 
signs among the people. 9 Then some of those who belonged to the 
synagogue of the Freedmen (as it was called), and of the Cyrenians, and 
of the Alexandrians, and of those from Cilicia and Asia, arose and 
disputed with Stephen. 10 But they could not stand against the wisdom 
and the Spirit with which he spoke. 11 Then they secretly induced men to 
say, "We have heard him speak blasphemous words against Moses and 
against God." 12 They stirred up the people and the elders and the 
scribes, and they came on him and seized him, and brought him before the 
council. 13 They put forward false witnesses who said, "This man never 
stops speaking against this holy place, and the law; 14 for we have heard 
him say that this Jesus of Nazareth will destroy this place, and will 
change the customs which Moses handed down to us." 15 And fixing 
their gaze on him, all who were sitting in the Council saw that his face 
was like the face of an angel. 
7
	1 The high priest said, "Are these things so?" 2 And he said: 
"Hear me, brethren and fathers! The God of glory appeared to our father 
Abraham when he was in Mesopotamia, before he lived in Haran, 3 and 
said to him, 'Leave your country and your relatives, and go into the land 
that I will show you.' 4 Then he left the land of the Chaldeans and settled 
in Haran. From there, after his father died, God had him move to this 
country in which you are now living. 5 But He gave him no inheritance in 
it, not even a foot of ground, and yet, even though he had no child, he 
promised that he would give it to him as a possession, and to his 
descendants after him. 6 But God spoke to this effect, that his 
descendants would be aliens in a foreign land, and that they would be 
enslaved and mistreated for four hundred years. 7 'But I will judge the 
nation which they serve,' said God, 'and after that they will come out and 
worship me in this place.' 8 And he gave him the covenant of 
circumcision. And so Abraham became the father of Isaac, and 
circumcised him on the eighth day; and Isaac became the father of Jacob, 
and Jacob of the twelve patriarchs. 
	9 "And the patriarchs, jealous of Joseph, sold him into Egypt. 
But God was with him, 10 and rescued him from all his afflictions, and 
gave him favor and wisdom in the sight of Pharaoh, king of Egypt, and he 
made him governor over Egypt and all his household. 11 Now there came 
a famine throughout all Egypt and Canaan, and great affliction, and our 
fathers could find no food. 12 But when Jacob heard that there was grain 
in Egypt, he sent our fathers there the first time. 13 At the second visit 
Joseph made himself known to his brothers, and Joseph's family was 
made known to Pharaoh. 14 Then Joseph sent and called his father Jacob 
and all his relatives to him, seventy-five persons in all. 15 And Jacob went 
down to Egypt, and there he and our fathers died. 16 They were carried 
back to Shechem and laid in the tomb that Abraham had bought for a sum 
of money from the sons of Hamor in Shechem. 
	17 "But as the time of the promise drew near, which God had 
granted to Abraham, the people increased and multiplied in Egypt 18 
until there arose another king over Egypt who knew nothing about 
Joseph. 19 He dealt craftily with our race and forced our fathers to expose 
their infants, so that they would not survive. 20 At this time Moses was 
born, and was beautiful before God. And he was brought up for three 
months in his father's house; 21 and when he was placed outside, 
Pharaoh's daughter took him and brought him up as her own son. 22 
Moses was educated in all the wisdom of the Egyptians, and he was 
mighty in his words and deeds. 
	23 "When he was forty years old, it came into his heart to visit 
his brethren, the sons of Israel. 24 And when he saw one of them being 
treated unjustly, he defended him and avenged the oppressed by striking 
down the Egyptian. 25 And he supposed that his brethren understood that 
God was granting them deliverance through him, but they did not 
understand. 26 On the following day he appeared to two of them as they 
were fighting, and tried to reconcile them, saying, 'Men, you are brethren; 
why do you wrong each other?' 27 But the man who was wronging his 
neighbor pushed him aside, saying, 'Who made you a ruler and a judge 
over us? 28 Do you want to kill me as you killed the Egyptian yesterday?' 
29 At this remark Moses fled, and became an exile in the land of Midian, 
where he became the father of two sons. 
	30 "After forty years had passed, an angel appeared to him in the 
wilderness of Mount Sinai, in the flame of a burning bush. 31 When 
Moses saw it, he was amazed at the sight; and as he approached to look 
more closely, there came the voice of the Lord: 32 'I am the God of your 
fathers, the God of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob.' Moses trembled with 
fear and did not dare to look. 33 And the Lord said to him, 'Take off the 
sandals from your feet, for the place where you are standing is holy 
ground. 34 I have certainly seen the oppression of my people in Egypt and 
have heard their groaning, and I have come down to rescue them. Come 
now, and I will send you to Egypt.' 35 This Moses whom they rejected, 
saying, 'Who made you a ruler and a judge?' is the one God sent to be 
both a ruler and a deliverer by the hand of the angel who appeared to him 
in the bush. 36 This man led them out, performing wonders and signs in 
the land of Egypt and in the Red Sea and in the wilderness for forty years. 
37 This is the Moses who said to the Israelites, 'God will raise up for you 
a prophet like me from your brethren.' 38 This is he who was in the 
congregation in the wilderness with the angel who spoke to him at Mount 
Sinai, and with our fathers; and he received living oracles to pass on to 
us. 39 But our fathers refused to obey him. Instead, they rejected him and 
in their hearts turned back to Egypt, 40 saying to Aaron, 'Make for us 
gods who will go before us; as for this Moses who led us out from the 
land of Egypt—we do not know what has happened to him.' 41 At that 
time they made a calf and brought a sacrifice to the idol, and were 
rejoicing in the works of their hands. 42 But God turned away and gave 
them over to worship the host of heaven, as it is written in the book of the 
prophets: 
	'Did you offer to me slain beasts and sacrifices, 
		forty years in the wilderness, O house of Israel? 
43	You took up the tent of Moloch, 
		and the star of the god Rephan, 
			the figures which you made to worship. 
	And I will remove you beyond Babylon.' 
	44 "Our fathers had the tabernacle of testimony in the 
wilderness, just as he who spoke to Moses directed him to make it 
according to the pattern which he had seen. 45 And having received it in 
their turn, our fathers brought it in with Joshua when they took the land 
from the nations whom God drove out before our fathers. So it was until 
the time of David, 46 who found favor in God's sight, and asked that he 
might find a dwelling place for the God of Jacob. 47 But it was Solomon 
who built a house for him. 48 However, the Most High does not dwell in 
houses made by human hands; as the prophet says: 
49	'Heaven is my throne, 
		and the earth is my footstool. 
	What kind of house will you build for me? says the Lord, 
		or what is the place of my rest? 
50	Has not my hand made all these things?' 
	51 "You stiff-necked people, uncircumcised in heart and ears, 
you always resist the Holy Spirit. You are doing just as your fathers did. 
52 Which of the prophets did not your fathers persecute? And they killed 
those who announced beforehand the coming of the Righteous One, 
whom you have now betrayed and murdered, 53 you who received the law 
as delivered by angels, and yet did not keep it." 
	54 Now when they heard this they were cut to the heart, and they 
gnashed their teeth at him. 55 But being full of the Holy Spirit, he gazed 
intently into heaven and saw the glory of God, and Jesus standing at the 
right hand of God; 56 and he said, "Behold, I see the heavens opened, and 
the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God." 57 But they cried out 
with a loud voice, and covered their ears and rushed together upon him 
with. 58 Then they cast him out of the city and began to stone him; and 
the witnesses laid down their garments at the feet of a young man named 
Saul. 59 And as they were stoning Stephen, he prayed, "Lord Jesus, 
receive my spirit." 60 Then he fell on his knees and cried out with a loud 
voice, "Lord, do not hold this sin against them." And when he had said 
this, he fell asleep. 1 Saul was consenting to his death.
8
	And on that day a great persecution arose against the church in 
Jerusalem, and they were all scattered throughout the region of Judea and 
Samaria, except the apostles. 2 Devout men buried Stephen, and made 
great lamentation over him. 3 But Saul began ravaging the church, and, 
entering house after house, he dragged off men and women and put them 
in prison. 
	4 Now those who had been scattered went about preaching the 
word. 5 Philip went down to a city of Samaria and proclaimed Christ to 
them. 6 The crowds with one accord were giving attention to what was 
said by Philip, when they heard and saw the signs which he did. 7 For 
unclean spirits, crying with a loud voice, came out of many who were 
possessed; and many who were paralyzed and lame were healed. 8 So 
there was much joy in that city. 
	9 Now there was a man named Simon, who had formerly 
practiced magic in the city and amazed all the people of Samaria. He 
boasted that he was someone great, 10 and they all, from the least to the 
greatest, gave attention to him, saying, "This man is what is called the 
Great Power of God." 11 And they gave heed to him, because for a long 
time he had amazed them with his magic. 12 But when they believed 
Philip as he preached good news about the kingdom of God and the name 
of Jesus Christ, they were baptized, both men and women. 13 Even Simon 
himself believed, and after being baptized he continued with Philip. And 
seeing signs and great miracles performed, he was amazed. 
	14 Now when the apostles in Jerusalem heard that Samaria had 
received the word of God, they sent them Peter and John, 15 who came 
down and prayed for them that they might receive the Holy Spirit. 16 For 
he had not yet fallen upon any of them; they had simply been baptized in 
the name of the Lord Jesus. 17 Then they laid their hands on them, and 
they received the Holy Spirit. 18 Now when Simon saw that the Spirit 
was given through the laying on of the apostles' hands, he offered them 
money, 19 saying, "Give me also this power, so that everyone on whom I 
lay my hands may receive the Holy Spirit." 20 But Peter said to him, 
"May your silver perish with you, because you thought you could obtain 
the gift of God with money! 21 You have no part or share in this matter, 
for your heart is not right before God. 22 Repent therefore of this 
wickedness of yours, and pray to the Lord that, if possible, the intent of 
your heart may be forgiven you. 23 For I see that you are in the gall of 
bitterness and in the bond of iniquity." 24 And Simon answered, "Pray 
for me to the Lord, so that nothing of what you have said may come upon 
me." 
	25 Now when they had testified and spoken the word of the 
Lord, they returned to Jerusalem, preaching the gospel to many villages of 
the Samaritans. 
	26 But an angel of the Lord said to Philip, "Get up and go 
toward the south to the road that goes down from Jerusalem to Gaza." 
This is a desert road. 27 So he got up and went. And there was an 
Ethiopian eunuch, a court official of Candace, queen of the Ethiopians, 
who was in charge of all her treasure; and he had come to Jerusalem to 
worship, 28 and he was returning and sitting in his chariot, and was 
reading the prophet Isaiah. 29 And the Spirit said to Philip, "Go up and 
join this chariot." 30 So Philip ran up to him, and heard him reading 
Isaiah the prophet, and asked, "Do you understand what you are reading?" 
31 And he said, "How can I, unless someone guides me?" And he invited 
Philip to come up and sit with him. 32 Now the passage of Scripture 
which he was reading was this: 
	"He was led as a sheep to slaughter; 
		and as a lamb before its shearer is silent, 
			so he does not open his mouth. 
33	In his humiliation justice was denied him. 
		Who can describe his generation? 
			For his life is taken up from the earth." 
	34 And the eunuch said to Philip, "Please tell me, of whom does 
the prophet say this, about himself or about someone else?" 35 Then 
Philip opened his mouth, and beginning with this scripture he told him 
the good news of Jesus. 36 And as they went along the road they came to 
some water; and the eunuch said, "Look, here is water! What prevents me 
from being baptized?" 38 And he commanded the chariot to stop, and 
they both went down into the water, Philip and the eunuch, and he 
baptized him. 39 And when they came up out of the water, the Spirit of 
the Lord snatched Philip away; and the eunuch saw him no more, but 
went on his way rejoicing. 40 But Philip found himself at Azotus, and as 
he passed through he kept preaching the gospel to all the towns until he 
came to Caesarea. 
9
	1 Now Saul, still breathing threats and murder against the 
disciples of the Lord, went to the high priest, 2 and asked for letters from 
him to the synagogues at Damascus, so that if he found any belonging to 
the Way, both men and women, he might bring them bound to Jerusalem. 
3 Now as he journeyed he approached Damascus, and suddenly a light 
from heaven flashed around him. 4 And he fell to the ground and heard a 
voice saying to him, "Saul, Saul, why do you persecute me?" 5 And he 
said, "Who are you, Lord?" And he said, "I am Jesus whom you are 
persecuting, 6 but get up and enter the city, and it will be told you what 
you must do." 7 The men who were traveling with him stood speechless, 
hearing the voice but seeing no one. 8 Saul got up from the ground; and 
when his eyes were opened, he could see nothing; so they led him by the 
hand and brought him into Damascus. 9 And for three days he was 
without sight, and neither ate nor drank. 
	10 Now there was a disciple at Damascus named Ananias; and 
the Lord said to him in a vision, "Ananias." And he said, "Here I am, 
Lord." 11 And the Lord said to him, "Get up and go to the street called 
Straight, and inquire at the house of Judas for a man from Tarsus named 
Saul, for he is praying, 12 and in a vision he has seen a man named 
Ananias come in and lay his hands on him so that he might regain his 
sight." 13 But Ananias answered, "Lord, I have heard from many about 
this man, how much harm he has done to your saints at Jerusalem; 14 and 
here he has authority from the chief priests to bind all who call on your 
name." 15 But the Lord said to him, "Go, for he is a chosen instrument of 
mine to carry my name before the Gentiles and kings and the sons of 
Israel; 16 for I will show him how much he must suffer for the sake of my 
name." 17 So Ananias departed and entered the house. And after laying 
his hands on him said, "Brother Saul, the Lord Jesus, who appeared to 
you on the road by which you were coming, has sent me so that you may 
regain your sight and be filled with the Holy Spirit." 18 And immediately 
there fell from his eyes something like scales, and he regained his sight. 
And he got up and was baptized, 19 and he took food and was 
strengthened. 
	Now for several days he was with the disciples who were at 
Damascus. 20 And immediately he began to proclaim Jesus in the 
synagogues, saying, "He is the Son of God." 21 All those who heard him 
were amazed, and said, "Is this not he who made havoc in Jerusalem of 
those who called on this name, and who had come here for the purpose of 
bringing them bound before the chief priests?" 22 But Saul increased all 
the more in strength, and confounded the Jews who lived at Damascus by 
proving that this Jesus is the Christ. 
	23 When many days had passed, the Jews plotted to kill him, 24 
but their plot became known to Saul. They were watching the gates day 
and night, to kill him; 25 but his disciples took him by night and let him 
down through an opening in the wall, lowering him in a basket. 
	26 When he came to Jerusalem, he tried to join the disciples; but 
they were all afraid of him, not believing that he was a disciple. 27 But 
Barnabas took him and brought him to the apostles. And he declared to 
them how he had seen the Lord on the road, and that he had spoken to 
him, and how he had preached boldly at Damascus in the name of Jesus. 
28 And he was with them moving about freely in Jerusalem, speaking out 
boldly in the name of the Lord. 29 And he was talking and arguing with 
the Hellenistic Jews; but they were seeking to kill him. 30 But when the 
brethren learned of it, they brought him down to Caesarea and sent him 
off to Tarsus. 
	31 So the church throughout all Judea and Galilee and Samaria 
enjoyed peace and was built up; and going on in the fear of the Lord and 
in the comfort of the Holy Spirit, it continued to increase. 
	32 Now as Peter went through all those regions, he came down 
also to the saints who lived at Lydda. 33 There he found a man named 
Aeneas, who had been bedridden for eight years and was paralyzed. 34 
Peter said to him, "Aeneas, Jesus Christ heals you; get up and make your 
bed." Immediately he got up. 35 And all who lived at Lydda and Sharon 
saw him, and they turned to the Lord. 
	36 Now there was at Joppa a certain disciple named Tabitha 
(which is translated Dorcas). She was full of good works and acts of 
charity. 37 And at that time she fell sick and died; and when they had 
washed her, they laid her body in an upper room. 38 Since Lydda was 
near Joppa, the disciples, having heard that Peter was there, sent two men 
to him, imploring him, "Please come to us without delay." 39 So Peter 
rose and went with them. And when he arrived, they took him to the upper 
room. All the widows stood beside him, weeping and showing the tunics 
and other garments that Dorcas made while she was with them. 40 But 
Peter sent them all out and knelt down and prayed; then turning to the 
body, he said, "Tabitha, arise." And she opened her eyes, and when she 
saw Peter, she sat up. 41 And he gave her his hand and raised her up. 
Then calling the saints and widows he presented her alive. 42 It became 
known all over Joppa, and many believed in the Lord. 43 And Peter 
stayed for many days in Joppa with a tanner named Simon. 
10
	1 At Caesarea there was a man named Cornelius, a centurion of 
what was known as the Italian Cohort, 2 a devout man and one who 
feared God with all his household, and gave alms generously to the 
people and prayed to God continually. 3 About the ninth hour of the day 
he clearly saw in a vision an angel of God who had just come in and said 
to him, "Cornelius!" 4 And he stared at him in terror, and said, "What is 
it, Lord?" And he said to him, "Your prayers and alms have ascended as a 
memorial before God. 5 Now send men to Joppa, and bring a man named 
Simon who is called Peter; 6 he is staying with a tanner named Simon, 
whose house is by the sea." 7 When the angel who spoke to him had left, 
he called two of his servants and a devout soldier of those who were his 
personal attendants, 8 and after he had explained everything to them, he 
sent them to Joppa. 
	9 The next day, as they were on their journey and approaching 
the city, Peter went up on the housetop about the sixth hour to pray. 10 
And he became hungry and was desiring something to eat; but while they 
were preparing it, he fell into a trance 11 and he saw heaven opened, and 
something descending, like a great sheet, let down by four corners to the 
earth. 12 In it were all kinds of four-footed animals and reptiles of the 
earth and birds of the air. 13 A voice came to him, "Get up, Peter. Kill 
and eat!" 14 But Peter said, "No, Lord; for I have never eaten anything 
that is common or unclean." 15 And the voice came to him again a second 
time, "What God has cleansed, you must not call common." 16 This 
happened three times, and immediately the thing was taken up to heaven. 
	17 Now while Peter was inwardly perplexed as to what the 
vision which he had seen might mean, behold, the men that were sent by 
Cornelius, having made inquiry for Simon's house, appeared at the gate. 
18 They called out, asking whether Simon who was known as Peter was 
staying there. 19 While Peter was reflecting on the vision, the Spirit said 
to him, "Behold, three men are looking for you. 20 But get up, go 
downstairs and accompany them without hesitation, for I have sent them 
myself." 21 Peter went down to the men and said, "Behold, I am the one 
you are looking for; what is the reason you have come?" 22 They said, 
"Cornelius, a centurion, a righteous and God-fearing man, who is well 
spoken of by the whole Jewish nation, was directed by a holy angel to 
send for you to come to his house, and to hear what you have to say." 23 
So he invited them in to be his guests. 
	The next day he rose and went off with them, and some of the 
brethren from Joppa accompanied him. 24 On the following day he 
entered Caesarea. Now Cornelius was expecting them and had called 
together his relatives and close friends. 25 When Peter entered, Cornelius 
met him and fell down at his feet and worshipped him. 26 But Peter 
raised him up, saying, "Stand up; I too am just a man." 27 As he talked 
with him, he went in and found many people assembled. 28 And he said 
to them, "You yourselves know how unlawful it is for a Jew to associate 
with a foreigner or to visit him; but God has shown me that I should not 
call any man common or unclean. 29 So when I was sent for, I came 
without raising any objection. I ask then why you sent for me." 30 
Cornelius said, "Four days ago to this hour, I was praying in my house 
during the ninth hour; and behold, a man stood before me in shining 
garments, 31 and he said, 'Cornelius, your prayer has been heard and your 
alms have been remembered before God. 32 Send therefore to Joppa and 
ask for Simon who is called Peter; he is lodging in the house of Simon, a 
tanner, by the sea.' 33 So I sent for you immediately, and you have been 
kind enough to come. Now therefore we are all here present in the sight of 
God, to hear all that you have been commanded by the Lord." 
	34 And opening his mouth, Peter said: "I most certainly 
understand now that God is not one to show partiality, 35 but in every 
nation the man who fears him and does what is right is welcome to him. 
36 You know the word which he sent to Israel, preaching good news of 
peace through Jesus Christ (he is Lord of all). 37 You know what has 
happened throughout all Judea, beginning from Galilee after the baptism 
which John preached: 38 how God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the 
Holy Spirit and with power, and how he went about doing good and 
healing all who were oppressed by the devil, for God was with him. 39 
We are witnesses of all that he did both in the country of the Jews and in 
Jerusalem. They put him to death by hanging him on a tree; 40 but God 
raised him up on the third day and caused him to be seen, 41 not to all the 
people but to us who were chosen by God as witnesses, who ate and 
drank with him after he rose from the dead. 42 And he commanded us to 
preach to the people, and to testify that he is the one appointed by God to 
be judge of the living and the dead. 43 Of him all the prophets bear 
witness that everyone who believes in him receives forgiveness of sins 
through his name." 
	44 While Peter was still speaking these words, the Holy Spirit 
fell on all who heard the message. 45 All the circumcised believers who 
came with Peter were amazed, because the gift of the Holy Spirit had been 
poured out even on the Gentiles. 46 For they heard them speaking in 
tongues and praising God. Then Peter said, 47 "Can anyone refuse the 
water for these people to be baptized who have received the Holy Spirit 
just as we have?" 48 And he ordered them to be baptized in the name of 
Jesus Christ. Then they asked him to stay on for a few days. 
11
	1 Now the apostles and the brethren who were throughout Judea 
heard that the Gentiles also had received the word of God. 2 So when 
Peter went up to Jerusalem, the circumcised believers criticized him, 3 
saying, "You went to uncircumcised men and ate with them." 4 But Peter 
began and explained to them in order: 5 "I was in the city of Joppa 
praying; and in a trance I saw a vision, something descending like a great 
sheet, let down from heaven by four corners; and it came down to me. 6 
And when I looked into it I saw four-footed animals of the earth, wild 
beasts, reptiles, and birds of the air. 7 Then I heard a voice saying to me, 
'Get up, Peter. Kill and eat!' 8 But I said, 'No, Lord; for nothing common 
or unclean has ever entered my mouth.' 9 But the voice answered a 
second time from heaven, 'What God has cleansed you must not call 
common.' 10 This happened three times, and all was drawn up again into 
heaven. 11 And behold, at that moment three men appeared at the house 
in which we were staying, having been sent to me from Caesarea. 12 The 
Spirit told me to go with them with no hesitation. These six brethren also 
went with me, and we entered the man's house. 13 And he told us how he 
had seen the angel standing in his house and saying, 'Send to Joppa and 
bring Simon, who is also called Peter; 14 he will declare to you a message 
by which you will be saved, you and all your household.' 15 As I began to 
speak, the Holy Spirit fell on them just as on us at the beginning. 16 And 
I remembered the word of the Lord, how he said, 'John baptized with 
water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit.' 17 So if God gave 
them the same gift as he gave us, who believed in the Lord Jesus Christ, 
who was I that I could oppose God?" 18 When they heard this, they 
quieted down and glorified God, saying, "So then, God has granted to the 
Gentiles also the repentance unto life." 
	19 Now those who were scattered because of the persecution 
that arose in connection with Stephen traveled as far as Phoenicia and 
Cyprus and Antioch, speaking the word to no one except Jews. 20 But 
there were some of them, men of Cyprus and Cyrene, who came to 
Antioch and began speaking to the Greeks also, preaching the Lord Jesus. 
21 The hand of the Lord was with them, and a great number believed and 
turned to the Lord. 22 News of this reached the ears of the church at 
Jerusalem, and they sent Barnabas to Antioch. 23 When he arrived and 
saw the grace of God, he was glad and encouraged them all to remain true 
to the Lord with all their hearts; 24 for he was a good man, full of the 
Holy Spirit and of faith. And a great number of people were brought to 
the Lord. 25 So Barnabas went to Tarsus to look for Saul; 26 and when 
he had found him, he brought him to Antioch. So for a whole year they 
met with the church and taught great numbers of people; and the disciples 
were called Christians first in Antioch. 
	27 Now at this time some prophets came down from Jerusalem to 
Antioch. 28 One of them named Agabus stood up and foretold by the 
Spirit that there would be a great famine all over the world. And this took 
place in the reign of Claudius. 29 And the disciples determined, each 
according to his ability, to send relief for the brethren living in Judea. 30 
And this they did, sending it to the elders by Barnabas and Saul. 
12
	1 Now about that time Herod the king laid hands on some who 
belonged to the church in order to persecute them. 2 He had James the 
brother of John put to death with the sword. 3 When he saw that it 
pleased the Jews, he proceeded to arrest Peter also. This was during the 
days of Unleavened Bread. 4 When he had seized him, he put him in 
prison, and delivered him to four squads of soldiers to guard him, 
intending after the Passover to bring him out to the people. 5 So Peter 
was kept in prison, but earnest prayer for him was made to God by the 
church. 
	6 The very night when Herod was about to bring him out, Peter 
was sleeping between two soldiers, bound with two chains, and sentries 
before the door were guarding the prison. 7 And behold, an angel of the 
Lord suddenly appeared, and a light shone in the cell; and he struck 
Peter's side and woke him up, saying, "Get up quickly." And the chains 
fell off his hands. 8 And the angel said to him, "Dress yourself and put on 
your sandals." And he did so. And he said to him, "Wrap your cloak 
around you and follow me." 9 So he went out and followed him; and he 
did not know that what was done by the angel was real, but thought he 
was seeing a vision. 10 When they had passed the first and the second 
guard, they came to the iron gate leading into the city. It opened for them 
by itself, and they went out and passed on through one street; and 
immediately the angel left him. 11 When Peter came to himself, he said, 
"Now I know for sure that the Lord has sent his angel and rescued me 
from the hand of Herod and from all that the Jewish people were 
expecting." 12 When he realized this, he went to the house of Mary, the 
mother of John who was also called Mark, where many were gathered 
together and were praying. 13 And when he knocked at the door of the 
gate, a servant-girl named Rhoda came to answer. 14 When she 
recognized Peter's voice, in her joy she did not open the gate, but ran in 
and announced that Peter was standing in front of the gate. 15 They said 
to her, "You are out of your mind!" But she kept insisting that it was so. 
They said, "It is his angel." 16 But Peter continued knocking; and when 
they opened the door, they saw him and were amazed. 17 But motioning 
to them with his hand to be silent, he described to them how the Lord had 
brought him out of the prison. And he said, "Tell this to James and to the 
brethren." Then he left and went to another place. 
	18 Now when day came, there was no small disturbance among 
the soldiers as to what had become of Peter. 19 When Herod had searched 
for him and could not find him, he examined the guards and ordered that 
they be put to death. Then he went down from Judea to Caesarea and 
stayed there a while. 
	20 Now he was angry with the people of Tyre and Sidon; and 
they came to him in a body, and having persuaded Blastus, the king's 
chamberlain, they asked for peace, because their country depended on the 
king's country for food. 21 On an appointed day Herod put on his royal 
robes, took his seat upon the throne, and made an address to them. 22 
And the people shouted, "The voice of a god and not of a man!" 23 
Immediately an angel of the Lord struck him because he did not give God 
the glory, and he was eaten by worms and died. 
	24 But the word of God continued to grow and to be multiplied. 
25 And Barnabas and Saul returned from Jerusalem when they had 
fulfilled their mission, taking along with them John, who was also called 
Mark. 
13
	1 Now in the church that was at Antioch there were prophets and 
teachers: Barnabas, Simeon who was called Niger, Lucius of Cyrene, 
Manaen who had been brought up with Herod the tetrarch, and Saul. 2 
While they were worshipping the Lord and fasting, the Holy Spirit said, 
"Set apart for me Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I have called 
them." 3 Then after they had fasted and prayed, they laid their hands on 
them and sent them off. 
	4 So, being sent out by the Holy Spirit, they went down to 
Seleucia and from there they sailed to Cyprus. 5 When they arrived at 
Salamis, they proclaimed the word of God in the synagogues of the Jews. 
And they had John as their helper. 6 When they had gone through the 
whole island as far as Paphos, they came upon a certain magician, a 
Jewish false prophet, named Bar-Jesus, 7 who was with the proconsul, 
Sergius Paulus, a man of intelligence. This man summoned Barnabas and 
Saul and sought to hear the word of God. 8 But Elymas the magician (for 
that is the meaning of his name) was opposing them, seeking to turn the 
proconsul away from the faith. 9 But Saul, who was also called Paul, 
filled with the Holy Spirit, looked intently at him 10 and said, "You who 
are full of all deceit and fraud, you son of the devil, you enemy of all 
righteousness, will you not stop making crooked the straight ways of the 
Lord? 11 Now, behold, the hand of the Lord is upon you, and you will be 
blind and unable to see the sun for a time." And immediately a mist and a 
darkness fell upon him, and he went about seeking someone to lead him 
by the hand. 12 Then the proconsul believed, when he saw what had 
happened, for he was amazed at the teaching of the Lord. 
	13 Now Paul and his companions put out to sea from Paphos 
and came to Perga in Pamphylia; but John left them and returned to 
Jerusalem. 14 But they passed on from Perga and came to Pisidian 
Antioch. And on the Sabbath day they went into the synagogue and sat 
down. 15 After the reading of the law and the prophets, the rulers of the 
synagogue sent to them, saying, "Brethren, if you have any word of 
exhortation for the people, say it." 16 Paul stood up, and motioning with 
his hand said, 
	"Men of Israel, and you who fear God, listen: 17 the God of this 
people Israel chose our fathers and made the people great during their stay 
in the land of Egypt, and with uplifted arm he led them out of it. 18 For 
about forty years he put up with them in the wilderness. 19 When he had 
destroyed seven nations in the land of Canaan, he gave them their land as 
an inheritance, for about four hundred and fifty years. 20 After these 
things he gave them judges until Samuel the prophet. 21 Then they asked 
for a king, and God gave them Saul the son of Kish, a man of the tribe of 
Benjamin, for forty years. 22 And after he had removed him, he raised up 
David to be their king; concerning whom he testified and said, 'I have 
found in David the son of Jesse a man after my heart, who will do all my 
will.' 23 From this man's descendants God has brought to Israel a Savior, 
Jesus, as he promised. 24 Before his coming John had preached a baptism 
of repentance to all the people of Israel. 25 And as John was completing 
his course, he said, 'What do you suppose that I am? I am not he. No, but 
after me one is coming, the sandals of whose feet I am not worthy to 
untie.' 
	26 "Brethren, sons of the family of Abraham, and those among 
you that fear God, to us has been sent the message of this salvation. 27 
For those who live in Jerusalem and their rulers, because they did not 
recognize him nor the utterances of the prophets which are read every 
Sabbath, fulfilled these by condemning him. 28 Though they found no 
ground for a death sentence, they asked Pilate to have him executed. 29 
When they had carried out all that was written about him, they took him 
down from the tree and laid him in a tomb. 30 But God raised him from 
the dead; 31 and for many days he appeared to those who came up with 
him from Galilee to Jerusalem, who are now his witnesses to the people. 
32 And we preach to you the good news that what God promised to the 
fathers, 33 he has fulfilled for us, their children, by raising up Jesus. As it 
is also written in the second Psalm: 
	'You are my Son; 
		today I have begotten you.' 
34 As for the fact that he raised him from the dead, no more to return to 
decay, he spoke in this way: 
	'I will give you the holy and sure blessings of David.' 
35 Therefore he also says in another Psalm, 
	'You will not let your Holy One see decay.' 
36 For David, after he had served the purpose of God in his own 
generation, fell asleep, and was laid with his fathers and saw decay; 37 
but he whom God raised did not see decay. 38 Therefore let it be known 
to you, brethren, that through him forgiveness of sins is proclaimed to 
you, 39 and through him everyone who believes is freed from everything 
from which you could not be freed by the law of Moses. 40 Therefore 
take care, so that what is said in the prophets may not come upon you: 
41	'Behold, you scoffers, 
		and wonder, and perish; 
	for I am going to do a deed in your days, 
		a deed you will never believe, 
			if someone declares it to you.'" 
	42 As Paul and Barnabas were going out, the people begged that 
these things might be spoken to them the next Sabbath. 43 When the 
meeting of the synagogue broke up, many Jews and devout converts to 
Judaism followed Paul and Barnabas, who spoke to them and urged them 
to continue in the grace of God. 
	44 The next Sabbath almost the whole city gathered to hear the 
word of the Lord. 45 But when the Jews saw the crowds, they were filled 
with jealousy, and contradicted what was spoken by Paul, and 
blasphemed. 46 Paul and Barnabas spoke out boldly and said, "It was 
necessary that the word of God be spoken to you first. Since you reject it 
and judge yourselves unworthy of eternal life, behold, we turn to the 
Gentiles. 47 For so the Lord has commanded us: 
	'I have made you a light for the Gentiles, 
		that you may bring salvation to the ends of the earth.'" 
48 When the Gentiles heard this, they were glad and glorified the word of 
the Lord; and as many as were appointed to eternal life believed. 49 And 
the word of the Lord spread through the whole region. 50 But the Jews 
incited the devout women of high standing and the leading men of the 
city, and stirred up persecution against Paul and Barnabas, and drove 
them out of their district. 51 So they shook off the dust from their feet in 
protest against them and went to Iconium. 52 And the disciples were 
filled with joy and with the Holy Spirit. 
14
	1 Now at Iconium they entered together into the Jewish 
synagogue, and so spoke that a great number believed, both of Jews and 
of Greeks. 2 But the Jews who refused to believe stirred up the Gentiles 
and poisoned their minds against the brethren. 3 So they spent a long time 
there, speaking boldly for the Lord, who bore witness to the word of his 
grace, granting signs and wonders to be done by their hands. 4 But the 
people of the city were divided; some sided with the Jews, and some with 
the apostles. 5 When an attempt was made by both the Gentiles and the 
Jews with their rulers, to mistreat them and to stone them, 6 they became 
aware of it and fled to the cities of Lycaonia, Lystra and Derbe, and to the 
surrounding country; 7 and there they continued to preach the gospel. 
	8 At Lystra there was a man sitting who had no strength in his 
feet, lame from birth, who had never walked. 9 He listened to Paul 
speaking; and Paul, looking intently at him and seeing that he had faith to 
be made well, 10 said with a loud voice, "Stand upright on your feet." 
And he leaped up and began to walk. 11 And when the crowds saw what 
Paul had done, they lifted up their voices, saying in the Lycaonian 
language, "The gods have come down to us in the likeness of men!" 12 
Barnabas they called Zeus, and Paul, because he was the chief speaker, 
they called Hermes. 13 The priest of Zeus, whose temple was just outside 
the city, brought oxen and garlands to the gates, and wanted to offer 
sacrifice with the crowds. 14 But when the apostles Barnabas and Paul 
heard of it, they tore their robes and rushed out into the crowd, crying out 
15 "Men, why are you doing this? We also are men, of like nature with 
you, and bring you good news, that you should turn from these vain 
things to a living God who made the heaven and the earth and the sea and 
all that is in them. 16 In past generations he allowed all the nations to go 
their own ways; 17 yet he did not leave himself without witness, in that 
he did good and gave you rains from heaven and fruitful seasons, 
satisfying your hearts with food and gladness." 18 Even with these words, 
they had difficulty keeping the crowds from offering sacrifice to them. 
	19 But Jews came there from Antioch and Iconium; and having 
won over the crowds, they stoned Paul and dragged him out of the city, 
supposing that he was dead. 20 But after the disciples had gathered 
around him, he got up and entered the city. And the next day he went with 
Barnabas to Derbe. 
	21 After they had preached the gospel to that city and had made 
many disciples, they returned to Lystra and to Iconium and to Antioch, 22 
strengthening the souls of the disciples, encouraging them to continue in 
the faith, and saying, "Through many tribulations we must enter the 
kingdom of God." 23 And when they had appointed elders for them in 
every church, with prayer and fasting they committed them to the Lord in 
whom they believed. 24 They passed through Pisidia, and came into 
Pamphylia. 25 And when they had spoken the word in Perga, they went 
down to Attalia. 26 From there they sailed to Antioch, where they had 
been commended to the grace of God for the work which they had 
completed. 27 When they arrived, they gathered the church together and 
declared all that God had done with them, and how he had opened a door 
of faith to the Gentiles. 28 And they spent a long time with the disciples. 
15
	1 But some men came down from Judea and were teaching the 
brethren, "Unless you are circumcised according to the custom of Moses, 
you cannot be saved." 2 And when Paul and Barnabas had no small 
dissension and debate with them, Paul and Barnabas and some of the 
others were appointed to go up to Jerusalem to the apostles and the elders 
about this question. 3 So, being sent on their way by the church, they 
passed through both Phoenicia and Samaria, reporting the conversion of 
the Gentiles, and they gave great joy to all the brethren. 4 When they 
came to Jerusalem, they were welcomed by the church and the apostles 
and the elders, and they reported all that God had done with them. 5 But 
some believers who belonged to the party of the Pharisees stood up, and 
said, "It is necessary to circumcise them, and to charge them to keep the 
Law of Moses." 
	6 The apostles and the elders came together to consider this 
matter. 7 After there had been much debate, Peter stood up and said to 
them, "Brethren, you know that in the early days God made a choice 
among you, that by my mouth the Gentiles would hear the word of the 
gospel and believe. 8 And God, who knows the heart, bore witness to 
them giving them the Holy Spirit, just as he also did to us; 9 and he made 
no distinction between us and them, but cleansed their hearts by faith. 10 
Now therefore why do you test God by putting upon the neck of the 
disciples a yoke which neither our fathers nor we have been able to bear? 
11 But we believe that we are saved through the grace of the Lord Jesus, 
just as they are." 
	12 All the assembly kept silent; and they listened to Barnabas 
and Paul as they related what signs and wonders God had done through 
them among the Gentiles. 13 After they finished speaking, James replied, 
"Brethren, listen to me. 14 Simeon has related how God first showed his 
concern by taking from the Gentiles a people for his name. 15 With this 
the words of the Prophets agree, just as it is written, 
16	'After this I will return, 
	and I will rebuild the tabernacle of David, which has fallen; 
		I will rebuild its ruins, 
			and I will restore it, 
17	so that the rest of mankind may seek the Lord, 
		and all the Gentiles who are called by my name,' 
18			says the Lord, who makes these things 
				known from long ago. 
19 Therefore it is my judgment that we should not trouble those who are 
turning to God from among the Gentiles, 20 but that we should write to 
them to abstain from the pollutions of idols and from fornication and 
from what is strangled and from blood. 21 For Moses from ancient 
generations has in every city those who preach him, since he is read in the 
synagogues every Sabbath." 
	22 Then it seemed good to the apostles and the elders, with the 
whole church, to choose men from among them and send them to Antioch 
with Paul and Barnabas. They sent Judas called Barsabbas, and Silas, 
leading men among the brethren, 23 and they sent the following letter 
with them: "The apostles and the brethren who are elders, to the brethren 
in Antioch and Syria and Cilicia who are from the Gentiles, greetings. 24 
Since we have heard that some persons from us have disturbed you with 
words, unsettling your minds, although we gave them no instructions, 25 
it has seemed good to us, having come to one accord, to choose men and 
send them to you with our beloved Barnabas and Paul, 26 men who have 
risked their lives for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. 27 We have 
therefore sent Judas and Silas, who themselves will tell you the same 
things by word of mouth. 28 For it seemed good to the Holy Spirit and to 
us to lay upon you no greater burden than these essentials: 29 that you 
abstain from things sacrificed to idols and from blood and from things 
strangled and from fornication. If you keep yourselves free from these, 
you will do well. Farewell." 
	30 So when they were sent off, they went down to Antioch; and 
having gathered the congregation together, they delivered the letter. 31 
And when they read it, they rejoiced at its encouragement. 32 And Judas 
and Silas, who were themselves prophets, encouraged the brethren with 
many words and strengthened them. 33 And after they had spent some 
time there, they were sent off in peace by the brethren to those who had 
sent them. 35 But Paul and Barnabas remained in Antioch, teaching and 
preaching the word of the Lord, with many others also. 
	36 After some days Paul said to Barnabas, "Let us return and 
visit the brethren in every city where we proclaimed the word of the Lord, 
and see how they are." 37 Barnabas wanted to take John, also called 
Mark, with them. 38 But Paul kept insisting that they should not take 
along one who had deserted them in Pamphylia, and had not gone with 
them to the work. 39 There arose such a sharp disagreement that they 
separated from one another, and Barnabas took Mark with him and sailed 
away to Cyprus. 40 But Paul chose Silas and left, being commended by 
the brethren to the grace of the Lord. 41 And he went through Syria and 
Cilicia, strengthening the churches. 
16
	1 And he came also to Derbe and to Lystra. A disciple was there, 
named Timothy, the son of a Jewish woman who was a believer; but his 
father was a Greek, 2 and he was well spoken of by the brethren who were 
in Lystra and Iconium. 3 Paul wanted this man to accompany him; and he 
took him and circumcised him because of the Jews who were in those 
places, for they all knew that his father was a Greek. 4 As they went on 
their way through the cities, they delivered to them for observance the 
decisions which had been reached by the apostles and elders who were in 
Jerusalem. 5 So the churches were strengthened in the faith, and increased 
in numbers daily. 
	6 And they went through the region of Phrygia and Galatia, 
having been forbidden by the Holy Spirit to speak the word in Asia. 7 
And when they came to Mysia, they tried to go into Bithynia, but the 
Spirit of Jesus did not allow them; 8 so passing by Mysia, they went 
down to Troas. 9 A vision appeared to Paul in the night: a man of 
Macedonia was standing and begging him, and saying, "Come over to 
Macedonia and help us." 10 When he had seen the vision, immediately 
we sought to go on into Macedonia, concluding that God had called us to 
preach the gospel to them. 
	11 So putting out to sea from Troas, we ran a straight course to 
Samothrace, and on the day following to Neapolis; 12 and from there to 
Philippi, which is the leading city of the district of Macedonia, and a 
Roman colony. We stayed in this city some days; 13 and on the Sabbath 
day we went outside the gate to the riverside, where we supposed there 
was a place of prayer; and we sat down and began speaking to the women 
who had come together. 14 A woman named Lydia, from the city of 
Thyatira, a seller of purple fabrics, who was a worshiper of God, was 
listening. The Lord opened her heart to respond to the things spoken by 
Paul. 15 When she and her household had been baptized, she urged us, 
saying, "If you have judged me to be faithful to the Lord, come into my 
house and stay." And she prevailed upon us. 
	16 It happened that as we were going to the place of prayer, we 
were met by a slave-girl who had a spirit of divination. She brought her 
owners much profit by fortune-telling. 17 She followed Paul and the rest 
of us, crying, "These men are servants of the Most High God, who are 
telling you the way of salvation." 18 She continued doing this for many 
days. But Paul was greatly annoyed, and turned and said to the spirit, "I 
command you in the name of Jesus Christ to come out of her!" And it 
came out at that very moment. 19 But when her owners saw that their 
hope of profit was gone, they seized Paul and Silas and dragged them into 
the marketplace before the authorities, 20 and when they had brought 
them to the magistrates they said, "These men are Jews and they are 
throwing our city into an uproar. 21 They advocate customs which it is 
not lawful for us Romans to accept or practice." 22 The crowd joined 
against them, and the magistrates tore the garments off them and ordered 
them to be beaten with rods. 23 And when they had inflicted many blows 
upon them, they threw them into prison, charging the jailer to guard them 
securely. 24 Having received such a charge, he put them into the inner 
prison and fastened their feet in the stocks. 
	25 But about midnight Paul and Silas were praying and singing 
hymns to God, and the prisoners were listening to them, 26 and suddenly 
there came a great earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison were 
shaken; and immediately all the doors were opened and everyone's chains 
were unfastened. 27 When the jailer woke and saw that the prison doors 
were open, he drew his sword and was about to kill himself, supposing 
that the prisoners had escaped. 28 But Paul cried with a loud voice, "Do 
not harm yourself, for we are all here!" 29 And he called for lights and 
rushed in, and trembling with fear he fell down before Paul and Silas. 30 
He brought them out and said, "Sirs, what must I do to be saved?" 31 
They said, "Believe in the Lord Jesus, and you will be saved, you and 
your household." 32 They spoke the word of the Lord to him and to all 
who were in his house. 33 He took them that very hour of the night and 
washed their wounds, and immediately he was baptized, he and all his 
family. 34 Then he brought them up into his house, and set food before 
them; and he rejoiced with his whole household that he had believed in 
God. 
	35 But when it was day, the magistrates sent their police, saying, 
"Release those men." 36 And the jailer reported these words to Paul, 
saying, "The chief magistrates have sent to release you. Therefore come 
out now and go in peace." 37 But Paul said to them, "They have beaten us 
publicly, without trial, men who are Roman citizens, and have thrown us 
into prison; and do they now cast us out secretly? No! Let them come 
themselves and take us out." 38 The police reported these words to the 
magistrates, and they were afraid when they heard that they were Roman 
citizens. 39 So they came and apologized to them, and they took them out 
and asked them to leave the city. 40 They went out of the prison and 
entered the house of Lydia, and when they saw the brethren, they 
encouraged them and departed. 
17
	1 Now when they had passed through Amphipolis and 
Apollonia, they came to Thessalonica, where there was a synagogue of the 
Jews. 2 And Paul went in, as was his custom, and for three weeks he 
reasoned with them from the scriptures, 3 explaining and proving that the 
Christ had to suffer and rise again from the dead, and saying, "This Jesus 
whom I am proclaiming to you is the Christ." 4 And some of them were 
persuaded, and joined Paul and Silas; as did a large number of the God-
fearing Greeks and not a few of the leading women. 5 But the Jews were 
jealous, and taking some wicked men from the market place, they formed 
a mob and set the city in an uproar; they attacked the house of Jason, 
seeking to bring them out to the people. 6 When they did not find them, 
they dragged Jason and some of the brethren before the city authorities, 
shouting, "These men who have turned the world upside down have come 
here also, 7 and Jason has welcomed them, and they are all acting against 
the decrees of Caesar, saying that there is another king, Jesus." 8 The 
crowd and the city authorities were disturbed when they heard this. 9 And 
when they had taken a pledge from Jason and the others, they let them go. 
	10 The brethren immediately sent Paul and Silas away by night 
to Berea, and when they arrived, they went into the Jewish synagogue. 11 
Now these were more noble-minded than those in Thessalonica, for they 
received the word with great eagerness, examining the Scriptures daily to 
see if these things were so. 12 Therefore many of them believed, along 
with a number of prominent Greek women and men. 13 But when the 
Jews of Thessalonica learned that the word of God was proclaimed by 
Paul in Berea also, they came there too, agitating and stirring up the 
crowds. 14 Then the brethren immediately sent Paul out to go as far as the 
sea, but Silas and Timothy remained there. 15 Now those who escorted 
Paul brought him as far as Athens; and receiving a command for Silas and 
Timothy to come to him as soon as possible, they left. 
	16 Now while Paul was waiting for them at Athens, his spirit 
was provoked within him as he saw that the city was full of idols. 17 So 
he was reasoning in the synagogue with the Jews and the God-fearing 
Greeks, and in the market place every day with those who happened to be 
there. 18 And also some of the Epicurean and Stoic philosophers were 
conversing with him. Some said, "What would this idle babbler wish to 
say?" Others, "He seems to be a proclaimer of foreign deities,"—because 
he was preaching Jesus and the resurrection. 19 And they took hold of 
him and brought him to the Areopagus, saying, "May we know what this 
new teaching is which you present? 20 For you are bringing some strange 
things to our ears; so we want to know what these things mean." 21 (Now 
all the Athenians and the foreigners who lived there spent their time in 
nothing other than telling or hearing something new.) 
	22 So Paul stood up in the meeting of the Areopagus and said: 
"Men of Athens, I see that in every way you are very religious. 23 For as I 
passed along, and observed the objects of your worship, I found also an 
altar with this inscription, 

'TO AN UNKNOWN GOD.'

What therefore you worship as unknown, this I proclaim to you. 24 The 
God who made the world and everything in it, since he is Lord of heaven 
and earth, does not live in temples made by hands; 25 nor is he served by 
human hands, as though he needed anything, since he himself gives to all 
men life and breath and everything. 26 And he made from one man every 
nation of men to live on all the face of the earth, having determined their 
appointed times and the boundaries of their habitation, 27 that they 
would seek God, if perhaps they might grope for him and find him, 
though he is not far from each one of us. 
28	'For in him we live and move and have our being,' 
as even some of your own poets have said, 
	'We are his offspring.' 
29 Being then God's offspring, we ought not to think that the Divine 
Nature is like gold or silver or stone, an image formed by the art and 
imagination of man. 30 The times of ignorance God overlooked, but now 
he commands all people everywhere to repent, 31 because he has fixed a 
day on which he will judge the world in righteousness by a man whom he 
has appointed, and of this he has given proof to all men by raising him 
from the dead." 
	32 Now when they heard about the resurrection of the dead, 
some of them sneered, but others said, "We want to hear you again on this 
subject." 33 So Paul went out from among them. 34 But some men joined 
him and believed, among whom also were Dionysius the Areopagite and a 
woman named Damaris and others with them. 
18
	1 After this he left Athens and went to Corinth. 2 And he found 
a Jew named Aquila, a native of Pontus, having recently come from Italy 
with his wife Priscilla, because Claudius had commanded all the Jews to 
leave Rome. He went to see them, 3 and because he was of the same trade 
he stayed with them, and they worked, for by trade they were tentmakers. 
4 And every Sabbath he was reasoning in the synagogue, and trying to 
persuade Jews and Greeks. 
	5 When Silas and Timothy came from Macedonia, Paul devoted 
himself exclusively to preaching, testifying to the Jews that Jesus was the 
Christ. 6 But when they opposed him and blasphemed, he shook out his 
garments and said to them, "Your blood be on your own heads! I am 
clean. From now on I will go to the Gentiles." 7 Then he left there and 
went to the house of a man named Titius Justus, a worshiper of God, 
whose house was next door to the synagogue. 8 Crispus, the ruler of the 
synagogue, believed in the Lord, together with all his household; and 
many of the Corinthians who heard him believed and were baptized. 9 
And the Lord said to Paul one night in a vision, "Do not be afraid, but go 
on speaking and do not be silent; 10 for I am with you, and no man will 
attack you to harm you, for I have many people in this city." 11 And he 
stayed a year and six months, teaching the word of God among them. 
	12 But while Gallio was proconsul of Achaia, the Jews made a 
united attack upon Paul and brought him before the judgment seat, 13 
saying, "This man is persuading men to worship God contrary to the law." 
14 But when Paul was about to open his mouth, Gallio said to the Jews, 
"If it were a matter of wrong or of vicious crime, O Jews, it would be 
reasonable for me to put up with you; 15 but since it is a matter of 
questions about words and names and your own law, see to it yourselves; 
I refuse to be a judge of these things." 16 And he drove them from the 
judgment seat. 17 And they all seized Sosthenes, the ruler of the 
synagogue, and beat him in front of the judgment seat. But Gallio paid no 
attention to this. 
	18 After this Paul stayed many days longer, and then took leave 
of the brethren and sailed for Syria, and with him were Priscilla and 
Aquila. In Cenchrea he had his hair cut, for he had taken a vow. 19 They 
came to Ephesus, and he left them there. Now he himself went into the 
synagogue and reasoned with the Jews. 20 When they asked him to stay 
for a longer time, he declined; 21 but on taking leave of them he said, "I 
will return to you if God wills," and he set sail from Ephesus. 22 When 
he had landed at Caesarea, he went up and greeted the church, and then 
went down to Antioch. 23 After spending some time there, he departed 
and went from place to place through the region of Galatia and Phrygia, 
strengthening all the disciples. 
	24 Now a Jew named Apollos, a native of Alexandria, came to 
Ephesus. He was an eloquent man, well versed in the scriptures. 25 He 
had been instructed in the way of the Lord; and being fervent in spirit, he 
spoke and taught accurately the things concerning Jesus, though he knew 
only the baptism of John. 26 And he began to speak out boldly in the 
synagogue. But when Priscilla and Aquila heard him, they took him aside 
and explained to him the way of God more accurately. 27 And when he 
wanted to go across to Achaia, the brethren encouraged him and wrote to 
the disciples to welcome him. When he had arrived, he greatly helped 
those who had believed through grace, 28 for he powerfully refuted the 
Jews in public, proving by the Scriptures that Jesus was the Christ. 
19
	1 While Apollos was at Corinth, Paul passed through the upper 
country and came to Ephesus. There he found some disciples. 2 And he 
said to them, "Did you receive the Holy Spirit when you believed?" And 
they said, "No, we have not even heard that there is a Holy Spirit." 3 And 
he said, "Into what then were you baptized?" They said, "Into John's 
baptism." 4 Paul said, "John baptized with the baptism of repentance, 
telling the people to believe in the one who was coming after him, that is, 
in Jesus." 5 On hearing this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord 
Jesus. 6 And when Paul had laid his hands upon them, the Holy Spirit 
came on them, and they spoke with tongues and prophesied. 7 There were 
about twelve men in all. 
	8 And he entered the synagogue and for three months spoke 
boldly, arguing and persuading about the kingdom of God. 9 But when 
some were stubborn and disbelieved, speaking evil of the Way before the 
congregation, he withdrew from them, and took the disciples with him, 
reasoning daily in the hall of Tyrannus. 10 This took place for two years, 
so that all who lived in the province of Asia heard the word of the Lord, 
both Jews and Greeks. 
	11 God did extraordinary miracles by the hands of Paul, 12 so 
that handkerchiefs or aprons were even carried from his body to the sick, 
and diseases left them and the evil spirits went out. 13 But also some of 
the Jewish exorcists, who went from place to place, attempted to name 
over those who had the evil spirits the name of the Lord Jesus, saying, "I 
adjure you by Jesus whom Paul preaches." 14 Seven sons of Sceva, a 
Jewish chief priest, were doing this. 15 But the evil spirit answered them, 
"Jesus I know, and I know about Paul, but who are you?" 16 And the man 
in whom the evil spirit was leaped on them, overpowered all of them, and 
prevailed against them, so that they fled out of that house naked and 
wounded. 17 This became known to all, both Jews and Greeks, who lived 
in Ephesus; and fear fell upon them all and the name of the Lord Jesus 
was being magnified. 18 Many also of those who believed now came, 
confessing and disclosing their practices. 19 And a number of those who 
practiced magic arts brought their books together and burned them in the 
sight of all; and they counted the value of them and found it came to fifty 
thousand pieces of silver. 20 So the word of the Lord grew mightily and 
prevailed. 
	21 Now after these things were finished, Paul purposed in the 
spirit to go to Jerusalem after he had passed through Macedonia and 
Achaia, saying, "After I have been there, I must also see Rome." 22 And 
having sent into Macedonia two of his helpers, Timothy and Erastus, he 
himself stayed in Asia for a while. 
	23 About that time there arose no small disturbance concerning 
the Way. 24 For a man named Demetrius, a silversmith, who made silver 
shrines of Artemis, brought no little business to the craftsmen. 25 These 
he gathered together, with the workmen of similar trades, and said, "Men, 
you know that from this business we have our wealth. 26 And you see and 
hear that not only in Ephesus, but in almost all of Asia, this Paul has 
persuaded and turned away a considerable number of people, saying that 
gods made with hands are no gods at all. 27 Not only is there danger that 
this trade of ours fall into disrepute, but also that the temple of the great 
goddess Artemis be regarded as worthless and that she whom all of Asia 
and the world worship will even be dethroned from her magnificence." 
	28 When they heard this, they were enraged and began crying 
out, "Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!" 29 The city was filled with the 
confusion, and they rushed with one accord into the theater, dragging 
along Gaius and Aristarchus, Paul's traveling companions from 
Macedonia. 30 Paul wanted to go in among the crowd, but the disciples 
would not let him. 31 Some of the Asiarchs also, who were friends of his, 
sent to him and begged him not to venture into the theater. 32 Now some 
were shouting one thing, some another; for the assembly was in 
confusion, and most of the people did not know why they had come 
together. 33 Some of the crowd prompted Alexander, since the Jews had 
put him forward. And Alexander motioned with his hand, wishing to 
make a defense to the people. 34 But when they recognized that he was a 
Jew, for about two hours they all with one voice shouted, "Great is 
Artemis of the Ephesians!" 35 And when the town clerk had quieted the 
crowd, he said, "Men of Ephesus, what man is there after all who does 
not know that the city of the Ephesians is guardian of the temple of the 
great Artemis and of the image which fell down from heaven? 36 
Therefore, since these facts are undeniable, you ought to be quiet and do 
nothing rash. 37 For you have brought these men here who are neither 
robbers of temples nor blasphemers of our goddess. 38 If then Demetrius 
and the craftsmen with him have a complaint against anyone, the courts 
are open, and there are proconsuls; let them bring charges against one 
another. 39 But if you want anything further, it shall be settled in the 
lawful assembly. 40 As it is, we are in danger of being charged with 
rioting because of today's events. In that case we would not be able to 
account for this commotion, since there is no reason for it." 41 After he 
had said this, he dismissed the assembly. 
20
	1 After the uproar had ceased, Paul sent for the disciples, and 
when he had exhorted them and taken his leave of them, he set out for 
Macedonia. 2 When he had gone through those parts and had given them 
much encouragement, he came to Greece. 3 There he spent three months, 
and when a plot was made against him by the Jews as he was about to set 
sail for Syria, he decided to return through Macedonia. 4 He was 
accompanied by Sopater of Berea, the son of Pyrrhus, and by Aristarchus 
and Secundus of the Thessalonians, and Gaius of Derbe, and Timothy, 
and Tychicus and Trophimus of Asia. 5 These went on ahead and were 
waiting for us at Troas. 6 But we sailed away from Philippi after the Days 
of Unleavened Bread, and in five days came to them at Troas, where we 
stayed seven days. 
	7 On the first day of the week, when we were gathered together 
to break bread, Paul began talking to them, intending to leave the next 
day, and he prolonged his message until midnight. 8 There were many 
lamps in the upper room where we were gathered. 9 And there was a 
young man named Eutychus sitting in the window sill, sinking into a deep 
sleep. And as Paul talked on and on, he was overcome by sleep and fell 
down from the third story and was picked up dead. 10 But Paul went 
down and fell on him, and after embracing him, he said, "Do not be 
alarmed, for his life is in him." 11 When he had gone back up and had 
broken the bread and eaten, he talked with them a long while until 
daybreak, and then left. 12 They took away the boy alive, and were greatly 
comforted. 
	13 But going ahead to the ship, we set sail for Assos, intending 
to take Paul aboard there; for so he had arranged, intending himself to go 
by land. 14 And when he met us at Assos, we took him on board and 
came to Mitylene. 15 Sailing from there, we arrived the following day 
opposite Chios; and the next day we crossed over to Samos; and the day 
after that we came to Miletus. 16 For Paul had decided to sail past 
Ephesus, so that he would not have to spend time in Asia; for he was 
hurrying to be in Jerusalem, if possible, on the day of Pentecost. 
	17 From Miletus he sent to Ephesus and called to him the elders 
of the church. 18 And when they came to him, he said to them: "You 
yourselves know how I lived the whole time I was with you, from the first 
day that I set foot in Asia, 19 serving the Lord with all humility and with 
tears and with trials which came upon me through the plots of the Jews; 
20 how I did not shrink from declaring to you anything that was 
profitable, and teaching you publicly and from house to house, 21 
testifying both to Jews and to Greeks of repentance toward God and faith 
in our Lord Jesus Christ. 22 And now, behold, bound in the Spirit, I am 
going to Jerusalem, not knowing what will happen to me there, 23 except 
that the Holy Spirit solemnly testifies to me in every city, saying that 
bonds and afflictions await me. 24 But I do not consider my life of any 
account nor as precious to myself, if only I may finish my course and the 
ministry which I received from the Lord Jesus, to testify to the gospel of 
the grace of God. 
	25 And now, behold, I know that all of you among whom I have 
gone about preaching the kingdom will see my face no more. 26 
Therefore, I testify to you this day that I am innocent of the blood of all 
men. 27 For I did not shrink from declaring to you the whole counsel of 
God. 28 Be on guard for yourselves and for all the flock, among which 
the Holy Spirit has made you overseers, to shepherd the church of God 
which he purchased with the blood of his Own. 29 I know that after my 
departure savage wolves will come in among you, not sparing the flock; 
30 and from among your own selves will arise men speaking perverse 
things, to draw away the disciples after them. 31 Therefore be alert, 
remembering that for three years I did not cease night and day to 
admonish each one with tears. 32 And now I commend you to God and to 
the word of his grace, which is able to build you up and to give you the 
inheritance among all those who are sanctified. 33 I have coveted no one's 
silver or gold or clothes. 34 You yourselves know that these hands 
ministered to my own needs and to the men who were with me. 35 In 
everything I did, I showed you that by this kind of hard work we must 
help the weak, remembering the words the Lord Jesus himself said: 'It is 
more blessed to give than to receive.'" 
	36 When he had said this, he knelt down and prayed with them 
all. 37 And they all wept and embraced Paul and kissed him, 38 grieving 
most of all over the word which he had spoken, that they would not see 
his face again. And they accompanied him to the ship. 
21
	1 When we had parted from them and set sail, we came by a 
straight course to Cos, and the next day to Rhodes, and from there to 
Patara. 2 And having found a ship crossing over to Phoenicia, we went 
aboard and set sail. 3 When we had come in sight of Cyprus, leaving it on 
the left we sailed to Syria, and landed at Tyre; for there the ship was to 
unload its cargo. 4 And having sought out the disciples, we stayed there 
for seven days. Through the Spirit they told Paul not to go on to 
Jerusalem. 5 And when our days there were ended, we left and started on 
our journey, while they all, with wives and children, brought us on our 
way until we were out of the city. After kneeling down on the beach and 
praying, we said farewell to one another. 6 Then we went on board the 
ship, and they returned home. 
	7 When we had finished the voyage from Tyre, we arrived at 
Ptolemais; and we greeted the brethren and stayed with them for a day. 8 
On the next day we left and came to Caesarea, and entering the house of 
Philip the evangelist, who was one of the seven, we stayed with him. 9 He 
had four unmarried daughters who prophesied. 10 As we were staying 
there for some days, a prophet named Agabus came down from Judea. 11 
And coming to us, he took Paul's belt and bound his own feet and hands, 
and said, "This is what the Holy Spirit says, 'In this way the Jews at 
Jerusalem will bind the man who owns this belt and deliver him into the 
hands of the Gentiles.'" 12 When we heard this, we and the people there 
begged him not to go up to Jerusalem. 13 Then Paul answered, "What are 
you doing, weeping and breaking my heart? For I am ready not only to be 
bound but even to die at Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus." 14 
And when he would not be persuaded, we ceased and said, "The will of 
the Lord be done." 
	15 After these days we got ready and went up to Jerusalem. 16 
And some of the disciples from Caesarea went with us, bringing us to the 
house of Mnason of Cyprus, an early disciple, with whom we were to 
lodge. 
	17 When we arrived at Jerusalem, the brethren received us 
gladly. 18 And the following day Paul went in with us to James, and all 
the elders were present. 19 After he had greeted them, he related one by 
one the things that God had done among the Gentiles through his 
ministry. 20 And when they heard it, they glorified God. And they said to 
him, "You see, brother, how many thousands there are among the Jews of 
those who have believed; they are all zealous for the law, 21 and they 
have been told about you that you teach all the Jews who are among the 
Gentiles to forsake Moses, telling them not to circumcise their children or 
to walk according to the customs. 22 What then is to be done? They will 
certainly hear that you have come. 23 Therefore do what we tell you. We 
have four men who are under a vow; 24 take these men and purify 
yourself along with them and pay their expenses, so that they may shave 
their heads. Thus all will know that there is nothing in what they have 
been told about you, but that you yourself live in observance of the law. 
25 But as for the Gentiles who have believed, we wrote to them our 
decision that they should abstain from meat sacrificed to idols and from 
blood and from what is strangled and from fornication." 26 The next day 
Paul took the men and purified himself along with them. Then he went to 
the temple to give notice of the date when the days of purification would 
end and the offering would be made for each one of them. 
	27 When the seven days were almost over, the Jews from Asia, 
upon seeing him in the temple, stirred up all the crowd and laid hands on 
him, 28 crying out, "Men of Israel, help! This is the man who is teaching 
all men everywhere against our people and our law and this place; and 
besides he also brought Greeks into the temple, and he has defiled this 
holy place." 29 For they had previously seen Trophimus the Ephesian in 
the city with him, and they supposed that Paul had brought him into the 
temple. 30 Then all the city was aroused, and the people rushed together, 
and taking hold of Paul they dragged him out of the temple, and 
immediately the gates were shut. 31 While they were trying to kill him, a 
report came up to the commander of the Roman cohort that all Jerusalem 
was in confusion. 32 At once he took along some soldiers and centurions 
and ran down to them; and when they saw the commander and the 
soldiers, they stopped beating Paul. 33 Then the commander came up and 
arrested him, and ordered him to be bound with two chains. He inquired 
who he was and what he had done. 34 Some in the crowd shouted one 
thing, and some another; and as he could not learn the facts because of 
the uproar, he ordered him to be brought into the barracks. 35 When he 
came to the steps, he was actually carried by the soldiers because of the 
violence of the mob; 36 for the mob of the people followed, shouting, 
"Away with him!" 
	37 As Paul was about to be brought into the barracks, he said to 
the commander, "May I say something to you?" And he said, "Do you 
know Greek? 38 Then you are not the Egyptian who some time ago stirred 
up a revolt and led the four thousand men of the Assassins out into the 
wilderness?" 39 Paul replied, "I am a Jew, from Tarsus in Cilicia, a 
citizen of no insignificant city; I beg you, let me speak to the people." 40 
When he had given him permission, Paul, standing on the steps, motioned 
to the people with his hand; and when there was a great hush, he spoke to 
them in the Hebrew language, saying, 
22
	1 "Brethren and fathers, hear my defense which I now offer to 
you." 2 And when they heard that he addressed them in the Hebrew 
language, they became more quiet. And he said: 3 "I am a Jew, born in 
Tarsus of Cilicia, but brought up in this city, educated under Gamaliel, 
strictly according to the law of our fathers, being zealous for God just as 
you all are today. 4 I persecuted this Way to the death, binding and 
delivering into prison both men and women, 5 as also the high priest and 
all the Council of the elders can testify. From them I also received letters 
to the brethren, and started off for Damascus in order to bring even those 
who were there to Jerusalem as prisoners to be punished. 
	6 "As I made my journey and drew near to Damascus, about 
noon a bright light from heaven suddenly flashed around me. 7 And I fell 
to the ground and heard a voice saying to me, 'Saul, Saul, why do you 
persecute me?' 8 And I answered, 'Who are you, Lord?' And he said to 
me, 'I am Jesus of Nazareth, whom you are persecuting.' 9 And those who 
were with me saw the light, but did not hear the voice of the one who was 
speaking to me. 10 And I said, 'What shall I do, Lord?' And the Lord said 
to me, 'Get up and go on into Damascus, and there you will be told of all 
that has been appointed for you to do.' 11 But since I could not see 
because of the brightness of that light, I was led by the hand by those who 
were with me and came into Damascus. 
	12 "A certain Ananias, a devout man according to the Law, and 
well spoken of by all the Jews who lived there, 13 came to me, and 
standing near said to me, 'Brother Saul, receive your sight!' And at that 
very time I looked up at him. 14 Then he said, 'The God of our fathers has 
appointed you to know his will and to see the Righteous One and to hear 
words from his mouth. 15 For you will be a witness for him to all men of 
what you have seen and heard. 16 Now why do you delay? Get up and be 
baptized, and wash away your sins, calling on his name.' 
	17 "When I had returned to Jerusalem and was praying in the 
temple, I fell into a trance 18 and saw him saying to me, 'Make haste, and 
get out of Jerusalem quickly, because they will not accept your testimony 
about me.' 19 And I said, 'Lord, they themselves know that in one 
synagogue after another I used to imprison and beat those who believed in 
you. 20 When the blood of Stephen your witness was shed, I also was 
standing by and approving, and keeping the garments of those who were 
killing him.' 21 And he said to me, 'Go; for I will send you far away to 
the Gentiles.'" 
	22 Up to this word they listened to him, and then they raised 
their voices and said, "Away with such a fellow from the earth! For he 
ought not to live." 23 And as they were crying out and throwing off their 
cloaks and tossing dust into the air, 24 the commander ordered him to be 
brought into the barracks, and commanded him to be examined by 
scourging so that he might find out the reason why they were shouting 
against him that way. 25 But when they stretched him out with thongs, 
Paul said to the centurion who was standing by, "Is it lawful for you to 
scourge a man who is a Roman citizen and uncondemned?" 26 When the 
centurion heard this, he went to the commander and told him, saying, 
"What are you about to do? For this man is a Roman citizen." 27 So the 
commander came and said to him, "Tell me, are you a Roman citizen?" 
And he said, "Yes." 28 The commander answered, "I bought this 
citizenship for a large sum." Paul said, "But I was born a citizen." 29 So 
those who were about to examine him withdrew from him immediately; 
and the commander also was afraid when he realized that Paul was a 
Roman citizen and that he had put him in chains. 
	30 But on the next day, wishing to know for certain why he had 
been accused by the Jews, he released him and ordered the chief priests 
and all the Council to assemble, and brought Paul down and set him 
before them. 
23
	1 And Paul, looking intently at the council, said, "Brethren, I 
have lived my life before God in all good conscience up to this day." 2 
The high priest Ananias commanded those standing beside him to strike 
him on the mouth. 3 Then Paul said to him, "God shall strike you, you 
whitewashed wall! Do you sit to judge me according to the law, and yet 
contrary to the law you order me to be struck?" 4 Those who stood by 
said, "Would you revile God's high priest?" 5 And Paul said, "I did not 
know, brethren, that he was the high priest; for it is written, 'You shall 
not speak evil of a ruler of your people.'" 
	6 But when Paul perceived that one part were Sadducees and the 
other Pharisees, he cried out in the council, "Brethren, I am a Pharisee, a 
son of Pharisees; with respect to the hope and the resurrection of the dead 
I am on trial." 7 When he said this, a dissension broke out between the 
Pharisees and the Sadducees, and the assembly was divided. 8 For the 
Sadducees say that there is no resurrection, nor an angel, nor a spirit, but 
the Pharisees acknowledge them all. 9 There occurred a great uproar; and 
some of the scribes of the Pharisees' party stood up and began to argue 
heatedly, saying, "We find nothing wrong with this man. What if a spirit 
or an angel has spoken to him?" 10 The dispute became so violent that the 
commander was afraid Paul would be torn to pieces by them and ordered 
the troops to go down and take him away from them by force, and bring 
him into the barracks. 
	11 The following night the Lord stood by him and said, "Take 
courage, for as you have testified about me at Jerusalem, so you must bear 
witness also at Rome." 
	12 When it was day, the Jews formed a conspiracy and bound 
themselves by an oath neither to eat nor drink until they had killed Paul. 
13 There were more than forty who formed this plot. 14 They went to the 
chief priests and the elders and said, "We have bound ourselves under a 
solemn oath to taste nothing until we have killed Paul. 15 You therefore, 
along with the council, give notice now to the commander to bring him 
down to you, as though you were going to determine his case more 
exactly. And we are ready to kill him before he comes near." 16 But the 
son of Paul's sister heard of their ambush, and he went and entered the 
barracks and told Paul. 17 Paul called one of the centurions and said, 
"Take this young man to the commander; for he has something to tell 
him." 18 So he took him and brought him to the commander and said, 
"Paul the prisoner called me and asked me to bring this young man to 
you, since he has something to tell you." 19 The commander took him by 
the hand, and going aside asked him privately, "What is it that you have 
to tell me?" 20 And he said, "The Jews have agreed to ask you to bring 
Paul down tomorrow to the Council, as though they were going to inquire 
somewhat more thoroughly about him. 21 But do not yield to them; for 
more than forty of them are waiting in ambush for him, having bound 
themselves by an oath neither to eat nor drink until they have killed him; 
and now they are ready, waiting for the promise from you." 22 So the 
commander dismissed the young man, instructing him, "Tell no one that 
you have informed me of this." 
	23 Then he called two of the centurions and said, "At the third 
hour of the night get ready two hundred soldiers with seventy horsemen 
and two hundred spearmen to go as far as Caesarea. 24 Also provide 
mounts for Paul to ride, and bring him safely to Felix the governor." 25 
And he wrote a letter having this form: 26 "Claudius Lysias, to His 
Excellency, Governor Felix: greetings. 27 This man was seized by the 
Jews, and was about to be killed by them, when I came upon them with 
the troops and rescued him, having learned that he was a Roman citizen. 
28 And desiring to know the charge for which they were accusing him, I 
brought him down to their council. 29 I found that he was accused over 
questions about their Law, but there was no accusation against him 
deserving death or imprisonment. 30 And when I was informed that there 
would be a plot against the man, I sent him to you at once, also 
instructing his accusers to bring charges against him before you." 
	31 So the soldiers, in accordance with their orders, took Paul 
and brought him by night to Antipatris. 32 But the next day, leaving the 
horsemen to go on with him, they returned to the barracks. 33 When these 
had come to Caesarea and delivered the letter to the governor, they also 
presented Paul to him. 34 When he had read the letter, he asked from 
what province he was, and when he learned that he was from Cilicia, 35 
he said, "I will hear you when your accusers arrive also." And he 
commanded him to be kept in Herod's Praetorium. 
24
	1 After five days the high priest Ananias came down with some 
elders, with an attorney named Tertullus, and they brought their charges 
against Paul before the governor. 2 And when Paul was called, Tertullus 
began to accuse him, saying to Felix: "Since through you we have 
enjoyed much peace, and since by your provision, reforms are introduced 
on behalf of this nation, 3 we acknowledge this in every way and 
everywhere, most excellent Felix, with all gratitude. 4 But, that I may not 
weary you further, I beg you in your kindness to hear us briefly. 5 For we 
have found this man a pestilent fellow who stirs up dissension among all 
the Jews throughout the world, and a ringleader of the sect of the 
Nazarenes. 6 He even tried to desecrate the temple; so we seized him. 8 
By examining him yourself you will be able to learn the truth about all 
these charges of which we accuse him." 9 The Jews also joined in the 
attack, asserting that these things were so. 
	10 When the governor had motioned for him to speak, Paul 
replied: "Realizing that for many years you have been a judge over this 
nation, I cheerfully make my defense. 11 Since you can easily verify that 
no more than twelve days ago I went up to Jerusalem to worship. 12 They 
did not find me disputing with anyone or stirring up a crowd, either in the 
temple or in the synagogues, or in the city. 13 Neither can they prove to 
you the charges they are now making against me. 14 But this I admit to 
you, that according to the Way which they call a sect I do worship the 
God of our fathers, believing everything that is in accordance with the 
Law and that is written in the Prophets, 15 having a hope in God, which 
these men cherish themselves, that there will certainly be a resurrection of 
both the righteous and the wicked. 16 And so I do my best always to have 
a clear conscience before God and men. 17 Now after several years I came 
to bring alms to my nation and to present offerings. 18 As I was doing 
this, they found me purified in the temple, without any crowd or uproar. 
But there were some Jews from Asia—19 who ought to be here before 
you and to make accusation, if they should have anything against me. 20 
Or else let these men themselves tell what wrongdoing they found when I 
stood before the Council, 21 except this one thing which I shouted out 
while standing among them, 'With respect to the resurrection of the dead 
I am on trial before you today.'" 
	22 But Felix, having a more exact knowledge about the Way, put 
them off, saying, "When Lysias the commander comes down, I will decide 
your case." 23 Then he gave orders to the centurion for him to be kept in 
custody but have some freedom, and not to prevent any of his friends from 
ministering to his needs. 
	24 But some days later Felix came with Drusilla, his wife who 
was a Jewess, and sent for Paul and heard him speak about faith in Christ 
Jesus. 25 But as he was discussing righteousness, self-control and the 
judgment to come, Felix became frightened and said, "Go away for the 
present, and when I find time I will summon you." 26 At the same time, 
he was hoping that money would be given him by Paul. So he sent for him 
often and conversed with him. 
	27 But when two years had passed, Felix was succeeded by 
Porcius Festus, and desiring to do the Jews a favor, Felix left Paul in 
prison. 
25
	1 Festus then, three days after arriving in the province, went up 
to Jerusalem from Caesarea. 2 And the chief priests and the principal men 
of the Jews brought charges against Paul; and they urged him, 3 as a favor 
to them, to have Paul transferred to Jerusalem, for they were preparing an 
ambush to kill him along the way. 4 Festus answered that Paul was being 
kept at Caesarea, and that he himself intended to go there shortly. 5 
"Therefore," he said, "let the men of authority among you go there with 
me, and if there is anything wrong about the man, let them prosecute 
him." 
	6 After he had spent not more than eight or ten days among 
them, he went down to Caesarea, and on the next day he took his seat on 
the tribunal and ordered Paul to be brought. 7 And when Paul arrived, the 
Jews who had come down from Jerusalem stood around him, bringing 
many serious charges against him, which they could not prove. 8 Paul 
said in his defense, "Neither against the law of the Jews, nor against the 
temple, nor against Caesar have I offended at all." 9 But Festus, wishing 
to do the Jews a favor, said to Paul, "Are you willing to go up to 
Jerusalem and stand trial before me there on these charges?" 10 But Paul 
said, "I am standing before Caesar's tribunal, where I ought to be tried. I 
have done no wrong to the Jews, as you also very well know. 11 If, then, I 
am a wrongdoer and have committed anything worthy of death, I do not 
refuse to die; but if none of the charges brought against me is true, no one 
can hand me over to them. I appeal to Caesar." 12 Then when Festus had 
conferred with his council, he answered, "You have appealed to Caesar, 
to Caesar you shall go." 
	13 Now when a few days had passed, King Agrippa and Bernice 
arrived at Caesarea and paid their respects to Festus. 14 While they were 
spending many days there, Festus laid Paul's case before the king, saying, 
"There is a man who was left as a prisoner by Felix; 15 and when I was at 
Jerusalem, the chief priests and the elders of the Jews brought charges 
against him, asking for sentence against him. 16 I answered them that it is 
not the custom of the Romans to hand over any man before the accused 
meets his accusers face to face and has an opportunity to make his 
defense against the charges. 17 When therefore they came together here, I 
did not delay, but on the next day took my seat on the tribunal and 
ordered the man to be brought in. 18 When the accusers stood up, they 
did not charge him of such crimes as I had expected, 19 but they simply 
had some points of dispute with him about their own religion and about a 
dead man, Jesus, whom Paul asserted to be alive. 20 Being at a loss how 
to investigate such matters, I asked whether he was willing to go to 
Jerusalem and there stand trial on these matters. 21 But when Paul 
appealed to be held in custody for the Emperor's decision, I ordered him 
to be kept in custody until I could send him to Caesar. 22 Then Agrippa 
said to Festus, "I also would like to hear the man myself." "Tomorrow," 
he said, "you shall hear him." 
	23 So on the next day Agrippa and Bernice came with great 
pomp and entered the audience room with the high ranking officers and 
the prominent men of the city. At the command of Festus, Paul was 
brought in. 24 Festus said, "King Agrippa and all who are present with 
us, you see this man about whom the whole Jewish people petitioned me, 
both at Jerusalem and here, shouting that he ought not to live any longer. 
25 But I found that he had done nothing deserving of death; and as he 
himself appealed to the emperor, I decided to send him. 26 But I have 
nothing definite about him to write to my lord. Therefore I have brought 
him before you all and especially before you, King Agrippa, so that after 
the investigation has taken place, I may have something to write. 27 For it 
seems to me unreasonable, in sending a prisoner, not to indicate the 
charges against him." 
26
	1 Agrippa said to Paul, "You have permission to speak for 
yourself." Then Paul stretched out his hand and began his defense: 2 "I 
consider myself fortunate that it is before you, King Agrippa, I am to 
make my defense today against all the accusations of the Jews, 3 because 
you are especially familiar with all customs and controversies of the Jews; 
therefore I beg you to listen to me patiently. 4 So then, all the Jews know 
my manner of life from my youth up, which from the beginning was spent 
among my own nation and at Jerusalem. 5 They have known about me for 
a long time, if they are willing to testify, that I lived as a Pharisee 
according to the strictest sect of our religion. 6 And now I am standing 
trial for the hope of the promise made by God to our fathers; 7 the 
promise to which our twelve tribes hope to attain, as they earnestly serve 
God night and day. And for this hope, O King, I am being accused by 
Jews. 8 Why is it thought incredible by any of you that God raises the 
dead? 9 I myself was convinced that I ought to do many things to oppose 
the name of Jesus of Nazareth. 10 And that is just what I did in 
Jerusalem; I not only shut up many of the saints in prison, by authority 
from the chief priests, but when they were put to death I cast my vote 
against them. 11 And as I punished them often in all the synagogues, I 
tried to force them to blaspheme; and being furiously enraged against 
them, I persecuted them even to foreign cities. 
	12 "On one of these journeys I was going to Damascus with the 
authority and commission of the chief priests. 13 At midday, O King, I 
saw on the way a light from heaven, brighter than the sun, shining around 
me and those who journeyed with me. 14 And when we had all fallen to 
the ground, I heard a voice saying to me in the Hebrew language, 'Saul, 
Saul, why do you persecute me? It is hard for you to kick against the 
goads.' 15 And I said, 'Who are you, Lord?' And the Lord said, 'I am 
Jesus whom you are persecuting. 16 But get up and stand on your feet; for 
this purpose I have appeared to you, to appoint you a minister and a 
witness to the things which you have seen of me, and also to the things in 
which I will appear to you; 17 rescuing you from the Jewish people and 
from the Gentiles, to whom I am sending you, 18 to open their eyes, so 
that they may turn from darkness to light and from the power of Satan to 
God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins and a place among those 
who are sanctified by faith in me.' 
	19 "So, King Agrippa, I was not disobedient to the heavenly 
vision, 20 but declared first to those at Damascus, then at Jerusalem and 
throughout all the country of Judea, and also to the Gentiles, that they 
should repent and turn to God and perform deeds worthy of their 
repentance. 21 For this reason the Jews seized me in the temple and tried 
to kill me. 22 To this day I have had the help that comes from God, and so 
I stand here testifying both to small and great, saying nothing but what the 
prophets and Moses said would happen: 23 that the Christ must suffer, 
and that, by being the first to rise from the dead, he would proclaim light 
both to the people and to the Gentiles." 
	24 And as he was saying this in his defense, Festus said in a 
loud voice, "Paul, you are out of your mind! Your great learning is driving 
you mad." 25 But Paul said, "I am not mad, most excellent Festus, but I 
am speaking the sober truth. 26 For the king knows about these things, 
and to him I speak freely; for I am persuaded that none of these things has 
escaped his notice, for this was not done in a corner. 27 King Agrippa, do 
you believe the prophets? I know that you do." 28 And Agrippa said to 
Paul, "In a short time you think to persuade me to become a Christian!" 
29 And Paul said, "Whether in a short or a long time, I would to God that 
not only you but also all who hear me this day might become such as I 
am—except for these chains." 
	30 The king rose and the governor and Bernice, and those who 
were sitting with them, 31 and when they had gone aside, they began 
talking to one another, saying, "This man is not doing anything worthy of 
death or imprisonment." 32 And Agrippa said to Festus, "This man could 
have been set free if he had not appealed to Caesar."
27
	1 When it was decided that we would sail for Italy, they 
delivered Paul and some other prisoners to a centurion of the Augustan 
cohort named Julius. 2 And embarking in a ship from Adramyttium, 
which was about to sail to the ports along the coast of Asia, we put out to 
sea, accompanied by Aristarchus, a Macedonian from Thessalonica. 3 The 
next day we put in at Sidon; and Julius treated Paul kindly, and allowed 
him to go to his friends and be cared for. 4 We put out to sea from there 
and sailed under the lee of Cyprus, because the winds were against us. 5 
When we had sailed across the open sea off the coast of Cilicia and 
Pamphylia, we landed at Myra in Lycia. 6 There the centurion found an 
Alexandrian ship sailing for Italy, and he put us aboard it. 7 When we had 
sailed slowly for a good many days, and with difficulty had arrived off 
Cnidus, since the wind did not allow us to go farther, we sailed under the 
lee of Crete, off Salmone. 8 We sailed along it with difficulty and came to 
a place called Fair Havens, near which was the city of Lasea. 
	9 As much time had been lost, and the voyage was now 
dangerous because the fast had already gone by, Paul advised them, 10 
and said to them, "Men, I perceive that the voyage will be with injury and 
great loss, not only of the cargo and the ship, but also of our lives." 11 
But the centurion was more persuaded by the pilot and the owner of the 
ship than by what was being said by Paul. 12 Because the harbor was not 
suitable to winter in, the majority reached a decision to put out to sea 
from there, on the chance that somehow they could reach Phoenix, a 
harbor of Crete, facing southwest and northwest, and spend the winter 
there. 
	13 When a gentle south wind came up, supposing that they had 
obtained their purpose, they weighed anchor and began sailing along 
Crete, close inshore. 14 But before very long there rushed down from the 
land a violent wind, called the northeaster; 15 and when the ship was 
caught in it and could not face the wind, we gave way to it and were 
driven along. 16 And running under the lee of a small island called 
Cauda, we were scarcely able to secure the boat. 17 After they had 
hoisted it up, they used supporting cables to undergird the ship; and 
fearing that they might run aground on the shallows of Syrtis, they 
lowered the sea anchor and in this way let themselves be driven along. 18 
The next day as we were being violently storm-tossed, they began to 
throw the cargo overboard; 19 and on the third day they threw the ship's 
tackle overboard with their own hands. 20 When neither sun nor stars 
appeared for many days, and no small storm was raging on us, all hope of 
our being saved was finally abandoned. 
	21 When they had gone a long time without food, then Paul 
stood up among them and said, "Men, you should have followed my 
advice and not to have set sail from Crete and incurred this damage and 
loss. 22 Yet now I urge you to keep up your courage; for there will be no 
loss of life among you, but only of the ship. 23 For this very night an 
angel of the God to whom I belong and whom I serve stood before me, 24 
and he said, 'Do not be afraid, Paul; you must stand before Caesar; and 
behold, God has granted you all those who sail with you.' 25 So keep up 
your courage, men, for I have faith in God that it will happen exactly as I 
have been told. 26 But we must run aground on some island." 
	27 But when the fourteenth night came, as we were being driven 
across the Adriatic Sea, about midnight the sailors began to sense that 
they were approaching land. 28 They took soundings and found it to be 
twenty fathoms; and a little farther on they took soundings again and 
found it to be fifteen fathoms. 29 Fearing that we might run aground 
somewhere on the rocks, they cast four anchors from the stern and prayed 
for daybreak. 30 But as the sailors were trying to escape from the ship 
and had let down the lifeboat into the sea, on the pretense of laying out 
anchors from the bow, 31 Paul said to the centurion and the soldiers, 
"Unless these men stay in the ship, you cannot be saved." 32 Then the 
soldiers cut the ropes of the lifeboat and let it fall away. 
	33 As day was about to dawn, Paul urged them all to take some 
food, saying, "Today is the fourteenth day that you have been in suspense 
and without food, having taken nothing. 34 Therefore I urge you to take 
some food; it will give you strength, since not a hair is to perish from the 
head of any of you." 35 Having said this, he took bread and gave thanks 
to God in the presence of all, and he broke it and began to eat. 36 Then 
they all were encouraged and ate some food themselves. 37 All of us in 
the ship were two hundred and seventy-six persons. 38 When they had 
eaten enough, they lightened the ship by throwing out the wheat into the 
sea. 
	39 When day came, they could not recognize the land, but they 
did observe a bay with a beach, and they resolved to drive the ship onto it 
if they could. 40 So they cast off the anchors and left them in the sea, at 
the same time loosening the ropes that tied the rudders; then hoisting the 
foresail to the wind they made for the beach. 41 But striking a sandbar 
they ran the vessel aground; the bow stuck fast and remained immovable, 
and the stern was broken up by the pounding of the surf. 42 The soldiers' 
plan was to kill the prisoners, so that none of them would swim away and 
escape. 43 But the centurion, wanting to bring Paul safely through, kept 
them from carrying out their plan. He ordered those who could swim to 
jump overboard first and get to land, 44 and the rest on planks or on 
various pieces of the ship. And so it happened that they were all brought 
safely to land. 
28
	1 When we had been brought safely through, then we found out 
that the island was called Malta. 2 The natives showed us unusual 
kindness, for they kindled a fire and welcomed us all, because it had 
begun to rain and was cold. 3 But when Paul had gathered a bundle of 
sticks and put them on the fire, a viper came out because of the heat and 
fastened itself on his hand. 4 When the natives saw the creature hanging 
from his hand, they said to one another, "No doubt this man is a 
murderer. Though he has escaped from the sea, justice has not allowed 
him to live." 5 However he shook the creature off into the fire and 
suffered no harm. 6 They waited, expecting him to swell up or suddenly 
fall down dead; but after they had waited a long time and saw nothing 
unusual happen to him, they changed their minds and said that he was a 
god. 7 Now in the neighborhood of that place were lands belonging to the 
chief man of the island, named Publius, who welcomed us and entertained 
us hospitably for three days. 8 It happened that the father of Publius was 
lying in bed sick with recurrent fever and dysentery; and Paul went in to 
see him and after he had prayed, he laid his hands on him and healed him. 
9 When this had happened, the rest of the people on the island who had 
diseases also came and were cured. 10 They honored us in many ways; 
and when we were ready to sail, they furnished us with the supplies we 
needed. 
	11 After three months we set sail in a ship which had wintered in 
the island, an Alexandrian ship, with the Twin Brothers as figurehead. 12 
After we put in at Syracuse, we stayed there for three days. 13 From there 
we sailed around and arrived at Rhegium, and a day later a south wind 
sprang up, and on the second day we came to Puteoli. 14 There we found 
some brethren, and were invited to stay with them for seven days. And so 
we came to Rome. 15 And the brethren, when they heard of us, came from 
there as far as the Forum of Appius and Three Taverns to meet us. When 
Paul saw them, he thanked God and took courage. 
	16 And when we came into Rome, Paul was allowed to stay by 
himself, with the soldier that guarded him. 
	17 After three days Paul called together the local leaders of the 
Jews; and when they had gathered, he said to them, "Brethren, though I 
had done nothing against our people or the customs of our fathers, yet I 
was delivered prisoner from Jerusalem into the hands of the Romans. 18 
And when they had examined me, they were willing to release me because 
there was no ground for putting me to death. 19 But when the Jews 
objected, I was compelled to appeal to Caesar—not that I had any charge 
to bring against my own nation. 20 For this reason therefore I have asked 
to see you and speak with you, since it is because of the hope of Israel 
that I am bound with this chain." 21 They said to him, "We have not 
received letters from Judea concerning you, and none of the brethren who 
have come here has reported or spoken anything bad about you. 22 But 
we desire to hear from you what your views are; for concerning this sect, 
we know that everywhere it is spoken against." 
	23 When they had appointed a day for Paul, they came to him at 
his lodging in great numbers. And he explained the matter to them from 
morning till evening, testifying to the kingdom of God and trying to 
convince them about Jesus both from the law of Moses and from the 
prophets. 24 Some were convinced by what he said, but others would not 
believe. 25 When they disagreed among themselves, they began to leave, 
after Paul had made one final statement: "The Holy Spirit spoke the truth 
to your fathers through Isaiah the prophet: 26 saying, 
	'Go to this people and say, 
	"you will be ever hearing, but will never understand; 
		and you will be ever seeing, but will never perceive.  
27	For this people's heart has become dull, 
		and with their ears they scarcely hear, 
			and their eyes they have closed; 
			otherwise they might see with their eyes, 
		and hear with their ears, 
	and understand with their heart and turn, 
		and I would heal them."' 
28 Therefore let it be known to you that this salvation of God has been 
sent to the Gentiles; they will listen." 
	30 And he stayed there two whole years in his own rented 
quarters and welcomed all who came to him, 31 preaching the kingdom of 
God and teaching about the Lord Jesus Christ quite openly and 
unhindered. 




Acts, page 1
