Copyright © Timothy E. Clontz 1999  All rights reserved.
The Gospel 
According to 
Matthew

1
	1 The book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the son of David, 
the son of Abraham: 
	2 Abraham was the father of Isaac, Isaac the father of Jacob, and 
Jacob the father of Judah and his brothers, 3 and Judah the father of Perez 
and Zerah by Tamar, Perez the father of Hezron, and Hezron the father of 
Ram, 4 Ram the father of Amminadab, Amminadab the father of 
Nahshon, and Nahshon the father of Salmon, 5 Salmon the father of Boaz 
by Rahab, Boaz the father of Obed by Ruth, and Obed the father of Jesse, 
6 and Jesse the father of King David. 
	David was the father of Solomon by the wife of Uriah, 7 
Solomon the father of Rehoboam, Rehoboam the father of Abijah, and 
Abijah the father of Asa, 8 Asa the father of Jehoshaphat, Jehoshaphat the 
father of Joram, and Joram the father of Uzziah, 9 Uzziah the father of 
Jotham, Jotham the father of Ahaz, and Ahaz the father of Hezekiah, 10 
Hezekiah the father of Manasseh, Manasseh the father of Amon, and 
Amon the father of Josiah, 11 and Josiah the father of Jeconiah and his 
brothers at the time of the exile to Babylon. 
	12 And after the exile to Babylon: Jeconiah was the father of 
Shealtiel, and Shealtiel the father of Zerubbabel, 13 Zerubbabel the father 
of Abiud, Abiud the father of Eliakim, and Eliakim the father of Azor, 14 
Azor the father of Zadok, Zadok the father of Achim, and Achim the 
father of Eliud, 15 Eliud the father of Eleazar, Eleazar the father of 
Matthan, and Matthan the father of Jacob, 16 and Jacob the father of 
Joseph the husband of Mary, of whom Jesus was born, who is called 
Christ. 
	17 So all the generations from Abraham to David were fourteen 
generations, and from David to the exile to Babylon fourteen generations, 
and from the exile to Babylon to the Christ fourteen generations. 
	18 Now the birth of Jesus Christ took place in this way: when 
his mother Mary was betrothed to Joseph, before they came together, she 
was found to be with child of the Holy Spirit. 19 Then Joseph her 
husband, being a just man, and not wanting to put her to public shame, 
was resolved to divorce her quietly. 20 But as he considered this, behold, 
an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, "Joseph, son of 
David, do not be afraid to take Mary your wife, for that which is 
conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit. 21 And she will give birth to a son, 
and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their 
sins." 22 All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the 
prophet: 
23	"Behold, the virgin shall be with child and bear a son, 
		and they shall call his name Immanuel," 
which means, "God with us." 24 When Joseph woke from sleep, he did as 
the angel of the Lord commanded him and took his wife, 25 but did not 
know her until she had borne a son. And he called his name Jesus. 
2
	1 Now after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of 
Herod the king, behold, wise men from the East came to Jerusalem, 2 
saying, "Where is he who has been born king of the Jews? For we have 
seen his star in the East and have come to worship him." 3 When Herod 
the king heard this, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. 4 And 
when he had gathered all the chief priests and scribes of the people 
together, he inquired of them where the Christ was to be born. 5 So they 
said to him, "In Bethlehem of Judea, for thus it is written by the prophet: 
6	'But you, Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, 
		are by no means least among the rulers of Judah; 
	for out of you shall come a ruler 
		who will be the shepherd of my people Israel.'"
	7 Then Herod called the wise men secretly and determined from 
them what time the star had appeared. 8 And he sent them to Bethlehem 
and said, "Go and search diligently for the young child, and when you 
have found him, bring back word to me, so that I too may come and 
worship him." 9 When they had heard the king they went their way; and 
behold, the star which they had seen in the East went before them, until it 
came to rest over the place where the child was. 10 When they saw the 
star, they rejoiced with exceedingly great joy. 11 On coming into the 
house, they saw the child with his mother Mary, and they fell down and 
worshipped him. Then they opened their treasures and presented him with 
gifts of gold, and of frankincense, and of myrrh. 12 And being warned in 
a dream not to return to Herod, they departed to their own country by 
another way. 
	13 Now when they had departed, behold, an angel of the Lord 
appeared to Joseph in a dream and said, "Rise, take the child and his 
mother, and flee to Egypt, and stay there until I tell you; for Herod is 
about to search for the child, to destroy him." 14 When he rose, he took 
the young child and his mother by night and departed for Egypt, 15 and 
remained there until the death of Herod. And so was fulfilled what the 
Lord had spoken by the prophet, "Out of Egypt have I called my son." 
	16 Then Herod, when he saw that he had been tricked by the 
wise men, was in a furious rage, and he sent and killed all the male 
children in Bethlehem and in all its region who were two years old or 
under, according to the time which he had determined from the wise men. 
17 Then was fulfilled what was spoken by the prophet Jeremiah: 
18	"A voice was heard in Ramah, 
		lamentation, weeping, and great mourning, 
	Rachel weeping for her children, 
		refusing to be comforted, because they are no more."
	19 But when Herod died, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared 
in a dream to Joseph in Egypt, 20 saying, "Rise, take the young child and 
his mother, and go to the land of Israel, for those who sought the young 
child's life are dead." 21 And he rose and took the child and his mother, 
and went to the land of Israel. 22 But when he heard that Archelaus was 
reigning over Judea in place of his father Herod, he was afraid to go there. 
And being warned in a dream, he withdrew to the district of Galilee, 23 
and he went and dwelt in a city called Nazareth, that what was spoken by 
the Prophets might be fulfilled, "He shall be called a Nazarene."
3
	1 In those days John the Baptist came, preaching in the 
wilderness of Judea, 2 and saying, "Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is 
at hand." 3 For this is he who was spoken of by the prophet Isaiah when 
he said, 
	"The voice of one crying in the wilderness:  
		Prepare the way of the Lord, 
		make his paths straight." 
4 Now John wore a garment of camel's hair, and a leather belt around his 
waist; and his food was locusts and wild honey. 5 Then Jerusalem and all 
Judea and all the region about the Jordan went out to him, 6 and 
confessing their sins, they were baptized by him in the Jordan River. 
	7 But when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming 
for baptism, he said to them, "You brood of vipers! Who warned you to 
flee from the wrath to come? 8 Bear fruit worthy of repentance, 9 and do 
not think to say to yourselves, 'We have Abraham as our father.'  For I 
tell you that God is able to raise up children to Abraham from these 
stones. 10 Even now the ax is laid at the root of the trees, and every tree 
therefore that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the 
fire. 11 I baptize you with water for repentance, but he who is coming 
after me is mightier than I, whose sandals I am not worthy to carry. He 
will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire. 12 His winnowing fork is 
in his hand, and he will clear his threshing floor and gather his wheat into 
the barn, but the chaff he will burn up with unquenchable fire."
	13 Then Jesus came from Galilee to John at the Jordan to be 
baptized by him. 14 But John tried to prevent him, saying, "I need to be 
baptized by you, and do you come to me?" 15 But Jesus answered him, 
"Let it be so now; for thus it is fitting for us to fulfill all righteousness."  
Then he consented. 16 And when Jesus was baptized, he went up 
immediately from the water, and behold, the heavens were opened and he 
saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove, and alighting on him. 17 
And behold, a voice from heaven, saying, "This is my beloved Son, with 
whom I am well pleased."
4
	1 Then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be 
tempted by the devil. 2 And he fasted forty days and forty nights, and 
afterward he was hungry. 3 And the tempter came and said to him, "If you 
are the Son of God, command these stones to become loaves of bread." 4 
But he answered, "It is written, 
	'Man shall not live by bread alone, 
		but by every word that proceeds 
			from the mouth of God.'"
5 Then the devil took him to the holy city, and set him on the pinnacle of 
the temple, 6 and said to him, "If you are the Son of God, throw yourself 
down. For it is written, 
	'He will give his angels charge of you,' 
		and 'In their hands they will bear you up, 
	lest you strike your foot against a stone.'"
7 Jesus said to him, "Again it is written, 'You shall not tempt the Lord 
your God.'" 8 Again, the devil took him to a very high mountain, and 
showed him all the kingdoms of the world, and their glory. 9 And he said 
to him, "All these I will give you, if you will fall down and worship me." 
10 Then Jesus said to him, "Away, Satan! for it is written, 
	'You shall worship the Lord your God 
		and him only shall you serve.'"
11 Then the devil left him, and behold, angels came and ministered to 
him. 
	12 Now when Jesus heard that John had been put in prison, he 
withdrew to Galilee. 13 And leaving Nazareth, he went and dwelt in 
Capernaum, which is by the sea, in the regions of Zebulun and Naphtali, 
14 that what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah might be fulfilled: 
15	"The land of Zebulun and land of Naphtali, 
		the way to the sea, beyond the Jordan, 
			Galilee of the Gentiles—
16	the people who sat in darkness 
		have seen a great light, 
	and on those who sat in the region and shadow of death 
		light has dawned."
	17 From that time Jesus began to preach and say, "Repent, for 
the kingdom of heaven is at hand."
	18 As Jesus was walking by the Sea of Galilee, he saw two 
brothers, Simon who is called Peter and Andrew his brother, casting a net 
into the sea; for they were fishermen. 19 And he said to them, "Follow 
me, and I will make you fishers of men." 20 Immediately they left their 
nets and followed him. 21 Going on from there, he saw two other 
brothers, James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, in the boat with 
Zebedee their father, mending their nets. And he called them, 22 and 
immediately they left the boat and their father, and followed him. 
	23 And Jesus went about all Galilee, teaching in their 
synagogues, and preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing every 
disease and every sickness among the people. 24 Then his fame spread 
throughout all Syria, and they brought to him all sick people who were 
afflicted with various diseases and pains, and those who were demon-
possessed, epileptics, and paralytics, and he healed them. 25 Great 
crowds followed him—from Galilee, and from the Decapolis, Jerusalem, 
Judea, and beyond the Jordan. 
5
	1 Seeing the crowds, he went up on a mountain, and when he sat 
down his disciples came to him. 2 And he opened his mouth and taught 
them, saying: 
3	"Blessed are the poor in spirit, 
		for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. 
4	Blessed are those who mourn, 
		for they shall be comforted. 
5	Blessed are the meek, 
		for they shall inherit the earth. 
6	Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, 
		for they shall be filled. 
7	Blessed are the merciful, 
		for they shall obtain mercy. 
8	Blessed are the pure in heart, 
		for they shall see God. 
9	Blessed are the peacemakers, 
		for they shall be called sons of God. 
10	Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, 
		for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. 
11 Blessed are you when they revile you and persecute you, and say all 
kinds of evil against you falsely for my sake. 12 Rejoice and be glad, for 
great is your reward in heaven, for so they persecuted the prophets who 
were before you. 
	13 "You are the salt of the earth. But if the salt loses its taste, 
how shall it be made salty again? It is no longer good for anything, except 
to be thrown out and trampled under foot by men. 14 You are the light of 
the world. A city set on a hill cannot be hidden. 15 Nor do they light a 
lamp and put it under a basket, but on a stand, and it gives light to all in 
the house. 16 Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your 
good works and glorify your Father in heaven. 
	17 "Do not think that I have come to abolish the Law or the 
Prophets; I have not come to abolish them but to fulfill them. 18 For 
truly, I say to you, till heaven and earth pass away, not an iota, not a dot, 
will by any means pass from the Law until all is accomplished. 19 
Whoever then breaks one of the least of these commandments and teaches 
men so, shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven; but he who does 
them and teaches them shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven. 20 
For I tell you, that unless your righteousness exceeds that of the scribes 
and Pharisees, you will by no means enter the kingdom of heaven. 
	21 "You have heard that it was said to those of old, 'You shall 
not murder, and whoever murders will be liable to judgment.' 22 But I say 
to you that anyone who is angry with his brother shall be subject to 
judgment. And whoever says to his brother, 'Raca,' shall be answerable to 
the council. But whoever says, 'You fool!' shall be in danger of the fire of 
hell. 23 Therefore, if you are offering your gift at the altar and there 
remember that your brother has something against you, 24 leave your gift 
there before the altar, and go. First be reconciled to your brother; and 
then come and offer your gift. 25 Agree with your adversary quickly, 
while you are on the way with him to court, lest your adversary deliver 
you to the judge, the judge hand you over to the officer, and you be 
thrown into prison. 26 Truly, I say to you, you will never get out till you 
have paid the last penny. 
	27 "You have heard that it was said, 'You shall not commit 
adultery.' 28 But I say to you that every one who looks at a woman 
lustfully has already committed adultery with her in his heart. 29 If your 
right eye causes you to sin, pluck it out and throw it away. It is better for 
you to lose one of your members than for your whole body to be thrown 
into hell. 30 And if your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off and throw 
it away. It is better for you to lose one of your members than for your 
whole body to go into hell. 
	31 "It has also been said, 'Whoever divorces his wife, let him 
give her a certificate of divorce.' 32 But I say to you that every one who 
divorces his wife, except on the ground of unchastity, causes her to 
become an adulteress; and whoever marries a divorced woman commits 
adultery. 
	33 "Again you have heard that it was said to those of old, 'You 
shall not swear falsely, but shall perform your oaths to the Lord.' 34 But I 
say to you, do not swear at all: either by heaven, for it is God's throne; 35 
or by the earth, for it is his footstool; or by Jerusalem, for it is the city of 
the Great King. 36 And do not swear by your head, for you cannot make 
even one hair white or black. 37 Simply let your 'Yes' be 'Yes,'  and your 
'No,' 'No'; anything more than this comes from evil. 
	38 "You have heard that it was said, 'An eye for an eye and a 
tooth for a tooth.' 39 But I tell you, do not resist an evil person. But if 
someone strikes you on the right cheek, turn to him the other also. 40 
And if someone wants to sue you and take your tunic, let him have your 
cloak as well. 41 And if someone forces you to go one mile, go with him 
two miles. 42 Give to him who asks you, and from him who wants to 
borrow from you do not turn away. 
	43 "You have heard that it was said, 'You shall love your 
neighbor and hate your enemy.' 44 But I say to you, love your enemies 
and pray for those who persecute you, 45 that you may be sons of your 
Father in heaven; for he makes his sun rise on the evil and on the good, 
and sends rain on the just and on the unjust. 46 For if you love those who 
love you, what reward have you? Do not even the tax collectors do the 
same? 47 And if you greet only your brethren, what more are you doing 
than others? Do not even the Gentiles do the same? 48 You, therefore, 
must be perfect, as your heavenly Father is perfect. 
6
	1 "Take heed that you do not do your charitable deeds before 
men, to be seen by them. If you do, you will have no reward from your 
Father in heaven. 
	2 "Thus, when you give alms, do not sound a trumpet before 
you, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they 
may be praised by men. Truly, I say to you, they have received their 
reward. 3 But when you give to the needy, do not let your left hand know 
what your right hand is doing, 4 so that your charitable deed may be in 
secret; and your Father who sees in secret will reward you. 
	5 "And when you pray, you shall not be like the hypocrites. For 
they love to pray standing in the synagogues and on the street corners, 
that they may be seen by men. Truly, I say to you, they have received their 
reward. 6 But when you pray, go into your room, shut the door and pray 
to your Father, who is in secret; and your Father, who sees in secret, will 
reward you. 7 And when you pray, do not use empty repetitions as the 
Gentiles do. For they think that they will be heard for their many words. 8 
Do not be like them, for your Father knows what you need before you ask 
him. 9 Pray, then, in this way: 
	Our Father in heaven, 
		hallowed be your name. 
10		Your kingdom come, 
		your will be done 
			on earth as it is in heaven. 
11		Give us this day our daily bread. 
12		And forgive us our debts, 
			as we also have forgiven our debtors. 
13		And lead us not into temptation, 
			but deliver us from evil.'
14 For if you forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also 
forgive you. 15 But if you do not forgive men their trespasses, neither will 
your Father forgive your trespasses. 
	16 "And when you fast, do not look gloomy, like the hypocrites, 
for they disfigure their faces that they may be seen by men to be fasting. 
Truly, I say to you, they have received their reward. 17 But when you fast, 
anoint your head and wash your face, 18 so that you do not appear to be 
fasting to men, but to your Father who is in secret; and your Father who 
sees in secret will reward you. 
	19 "Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth 
and rust destroy and where thieves break in and steal, 20 but lay up for 
yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys and 
where thieves do not break in and steal. 21 For where your treasure is, 
there your heart will be also. 22 The lamp of the body is the eye. So if 
your eye is good, your whole body will be full of light. 23 But if your eye 
is bad, your whole body will be full of darkness. If then the light in you is 
darkness, how great is that darkness! 24 No one can serve two masters; 
for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to 
the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon. 
	25 "Therefore I tell you, do not worry about your life, what you 
will eat or what you will drink; nor about your body, what you will put 
on. Is not life more than food, and the body more than clothing? 26 Look 
at the birds of the air: they neither sow nor reap nor gather into barns, and 
yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not of more value than 
they? 27 Which of you by worrying can add one cubit to his span of life? 
28 And why do you worry about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, 
how they grow; they neither toil nor spin, 29 yet I tell you that even 
Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. 30 Now if God 
so clothes the grass of the field, which today is, and tomorrow is thrown 
into the oven, will he not much more clothe you, O you of little faith? 31 
Therefore do not worry, saying, 'What shall we eat?' or 'What shall we 
drink?' or 'What shall we wear?' 32 For the Gentiles seek after all these 
things; and your heavenly Father knows that you need them all. 33 But 
seek first his kingdom and his righteousness, and all these things shall be 
given to you as well. 34 Therefore do not worry about tomorrow, for 
tomorrow will worry about itself. Sufficient for the day is its own trouble. 
7
	1 "Judge not, that you be not judged. 2 For with the same 
judgment you judge others, you will be judged, and with the measure you 
use, it will be measured to you. 3 And why do you look at the speck in 
your brother's eye, but do not consider the plank in your own eye? 4 Or 
how can you say to your brother, 'Let me take the speck out of your eye,' 
when there is a plank in your own eye? 5 You hypocrite, first take the 
plank out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to remove the 
speck from your brother's eye. 6 Do not give what is holy to the dogs; do 
not throw your pearls before swine, lest they trample them under their 
feet, and turn and tear you in pieces. 
	7 "Ask, and it will be given to you; seek, and you will find; 
knock, and it will be opened to you. 8 For everyone who asks receives, 
and he who seeks finds, and to him who knocks it will be opened. 9 Or 
what man of you, if his son asks him for bread, will give him a stone? 10 
Or if he asks for a fish, will give him a serpent? 11 If you then, who are 
evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will 
your Father who is in heaven give good things to those who ask him! 12 
So whatever you wish that men would do to you, do also to them, for this 
is the Law and the Prophets. 
	13 "Enter by the narrow gate; for the gate is wide, and the way is 
broad that leads to destruction, and many are those who enter by it. 14 
For the gate is narrow and the way is hard, that leads to life, and few are 
those who find it. 
	15 "Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep's 
clothing, but inwardly they are ravenous wolves. 16 You will know them 
by their fruits. Do men gather grapes from thorn bushes, or figs from 
thistles? 17 Even so, every good tree bears good fruit, but a bad tree bears 
bad fruit. 18 A good tree cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a bad tree bear 
good fruit. 19 Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and 
thrown into the fire. 20 Thus you will know them by their fruits. 
	21 "Not every one who says to me, 'Lord, Lord,' shall enter the 
kingdom of heaven, but he who does the will of my Father who is in 
heaven. 22 On that day many will say to me, 'Lord, Lord, did we not 
prophesy in your name, and cast out demons in your name, and do many 
mighty works in your name?' 23 And then will I declare to them, 'I never 
knew you; depart from me, you evildoers!' 
	24 "Therefore everyone who hears these words of mine and does 
them will be like a wise man who built his house on the rock. 25 And the 
rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat upon that 
house, but it did not fall, because it had been founded on the rock. 26 
And every one who hears these words of mine and does not do them will 
be like a foolish man who built his house upon the sand; 27 and the rain 
descended, the floods came, and the winds blew and beat against that 
house, and it fell. And great was its fall."
	28 And when Jesus had finished these sayings, the crowds were 
astonished at his teaching, 29 for he taught them as one who had 
authority, and not as their scribes. 
8
	1 When he came down from the mountain, great crowds 
followed him. 2 And behold, a leper came and knelt before him, saying, 
"Lord, if you are willing, you can make me clean." 3 Then Jesus put out 
his hand and touched him, saying, "I am willing; be clean."  Immediately 
his leprosy was cleansed. 4 And Jesus said to him, "See that you tell no 
one; but go your way, show yourself to the priest, and offer the gift that 
Moses commanded, as a testimony to them."
	5 When Jesus had entered Capernaum, a centurion came to him, 
asking for help, 6 and saying, "Lord, my servant is lying paralyzed at 
home, in terrible distress." 7 And Jesus said to him, "I will come and heal 
him." 8 But the centurion answered him, "Lord, I am not worthy to have 
you come under my roof. But only say the word, and my servant will be 
healed. 9 For I also am a man under authority, with soldiers under me. 
And I say to this one, 'Go,' and he goes; and to another, 'Come,' and he 
comes; and to my servant, 'Do this,' and he does it." 10 When Jesus 
heard him, he marveled, and said to those who followed him, "Truly, I say 
to you, not even in Israel have I found such great faith. 11 I say to you that 
many will come from east and west, and sit down with Abraham, Isaac, 
and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven. 12 But the sons of the kingdom will 
be thrown out into the outer darkness. There will be weeping and 
gnashing of teeth." 13 Then to the centurion Jesus said, "Go; be it done 
for you as you have believed." And his servant was healed at that very 
hour. 
	14 When Jesus come into Peter's house, he saw his mother-in-
law lying sick with a fever. 15 He touched her hand, and the fever left her, 
and she rose and served him. 16 When evening had come, they brought to 
him many who were demon-possessed. And he cast out the spirits with a 
word, and healed all who were sick. 17 This was to fulfill what was 
spoken by the prophet Isaiah: 
	"He took up our infirmities 
		and bore our diseases." 
	18 Now when Jesus saw great crowds around him, he gave 
orders to go over to the other side. 19 Then a certain scribe came and said 
to him, "Teacher, I will follow you wherever you go." 20 And Jesus said 
to him, "Foxes have holes and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of 
Man has nowhere to lay his head." 21 Another of the disciples said to 
him, "Lord, let me first go and bury my father." 22 But Jesus said to him, 
"Follow me, and let the dead bury their own dead."
	23 And when he got into the boat, his disciples followed him. 24 
And behold, a great storm arose on the sea, so that the boat was covered 
with the waves. But he was asleep. 25 The disciples went and woke him, 
saying, "Lord, save us! We are perishing!" 26 And he said to them, "Why 
are you afraid, O you of little faith?" Then he rose and rebuked the winds 
and the sea, and there was a great calm. 27 And the men marveled, saying, 
"What sort of man is this, that even the winds and the sea obey him?"
	28 When he had come to the other side, to the country of the 
Gadarenes, two demon-possessed men met him, coming out of the tombs, 
exceedingly fierce, so that no one could pass that way. 29 And behold, 
they cried out, "What have you to do with us, O Son of God? Have you 
come here to torment us before the time?" 30 Now a herd of many swine 
was feeding at some distance from them. 31 And the demons begged him, 
"If you cast us out, send us away into the herd of swine." 32 And he said 
to them, "Go." So they came out and went into the swine; and behold, the 
whole herd rushed down the steep bank into the sea, and perished in the 
water. 33 Then those who kept them fled, and they went away into the 
city and told everything, including what had happened to the demon-
possessed men. 34 And behold, the whole city came out to meet Jesus. 
And when they saw him, they begged him to leave their region. 
9
	1 And getting into a boat, he crossed over and came to his own 
city. 2 And behold, they brought to him a paralytic, lying on a bed. And 
when Jesus saw their faith he said to the paralytic, "Take heart, my son; 
your sins are forgiven." 3 And behold, some of the scribes said to 
themselves, "This man is blaspheming!" 4 But Jesus, knowing their 
thoughts, said, "Why do you think evil in your hearts? 5 For which is 
easier, to say, 'Your sins are forgiven,' or to say, 'Rise and walk'? 6 But 
that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive 
sins"—he then said to the paralytic—"Rise, take up your bed and go 
home." 7 And he rose and went home. 8 When the crowds saw it, they 
were afraid, and they glorified God, who had given such authority to men. 
	9 As Jesus passed on from there, he saw a man named Matthew 
sitting at the tax office; and he said to him, "Follow me." And he rose and 
followed him. 10 And as Jesus sat at table in the house, behold, many tax 
collectors and sinners came and sat down with him and his disciples. 11 
And when the Pharisees saw this, they said to his disciples, "Why does 
your teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners?" 12 But when Jesus 
heard it, he said, "Those who are well have no need of a physician, but 
those who are sick. 13 But go and learn what this means: 'I desire mercy, 
and not sacrifice.' For I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners." 
	14 Then the disciples of John came to him, saying, "Why do we 
and the Pharisees fast, but your disciples do not fast?" 15 And Jesus said 
to them, "Can the guests of the bridegroom mourn as long as he is with 
them? The days will come, when the bridegroom will be taken away from 
them, and then they will fast. 16 No one puts a piece of unshrunk cloth 
on an old garment, for the patch pulls away from the garment, and the tear 
is made worse. 17 Neither do they put new wine into old wineskins; if 
they do, the skins burst, and the wine is spilled, and the skins are ruined. 
But they put new wine into new wineskins, and so both are preserved."
	18 While he was saying these things to them, behold, a ruler 
came and knelt before him, saying, "My daughter has just died, but come 
and lay your hand on her and she will live." 19 So Jesus rose and 
followed him, and so did his disciples. 20 And behold, a woman who had 
suffered from a hemorrhage for twelve years came up behind him and 
touched the fringe of his garment. 21 For she said to herself, "If I only 
touch his garment, I shall be made well." 22 Jesus turned, and when he 
saw her he said, "Take heart, daughter; your faith has made you well." 
And the woman was made well from that moment. 23 When Jesus came to 
the ruler's house, and saw the flute players and the noisy crowd, 24 he 
said, "Depart; for the girl is not dead but sleeping." And they laughed at 
him. 25 But when the crowd had been put outside, he went in and took 
her by the hand, and the girl arose. 26 And the report of this went through 
all that region. 
	27 And as Jesus passed on from there, two blind men followed 
him, crying out, "Have mercy on us, Son of David." 28 When he had 
entered the house, the blind men came to him; and Jesus said to them, 
"Do you believe that I am able to do this?" They said to him, "Yes, Lord." 
29 Then he touched their eyes, saying, "According to your faith be it done 
to you." 30 And their eyes were opened. And Jesus sternly warned them, 
"See that no one knows it." 31 But they went out and spread the news 
about him all over that region. 
	32 As they were going out, behold, a mute and demon-possessed 
man was brought to him. 33 And when the demon had been cast out, the 
mute man spoke; and the crowds marveled, saying, "Never was anything 
like this seen in Israel." 34 But the Pharisees said, "He casts out demons 
by the prince of demons." 
	35 And Jesus went about all the cities and villages, teaching in 
their synagogues and preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing 
every disease and every sickness. 36 When he saw the crowds, he had 
compassion for them, because they were harassed and helpless, like sheep 
without a shepherd. 37 Then he said to his disciples, "The harvest is 
plentiful, but the laborers are few. 38 Therefore pray the Lord of the 
harvest to send out laborers into his harvest."
10
	1 And he called to him his twelve disciples and gave them 
authority over unclean spirits, to cast them out, and to heal every disease 
and every sickness. 2 The names of the twelve apostles are these: first, 
Simon, who is called Peter, and Andrew his brother; James the son of 
Zebedee, and John his brother; 3 Philip and Bartholomew; Thomas and 
Matthew the tax collector; James the son of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus; 4 
Simon the Zealot, and Judas Iscariot, who betrayed him. 
	5 These twelve Jesus sent out and commanded them: "Do not go 
among the Gentiles, or enter any town of the Samaritans. 6 But go rather 
to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. 7 And preach as you go, saying, 
'The kingdom of heaven is at hand.' 8 Heal the sick, cleanse the lepers, 
raise the dead, cast out demons. Freely you have received, freely give. 9 
Take no gold, nor silver, nor copper in your belts, 10 nor bag for your 
journey, nor two tunics, nor sandals, nor a staff; for the worker is worthy 
of his food. 11 Now whatever village or town you enter, inquire who in it 
is worthy, and stay there until you go out. 12 As you enter the house, give 
it your greeting. 13 And if the house is worthy, let your peace come upon 
it; but if it is not worthy, let your peace return to you. 14 And if any one 
will not receive you or listen to your words, shake off the dust from your 
feet when you leave that house or town. 15 Truly, I say to you, it will be 
more tolerable on the day of judgment for the land of Sodom and 
Gomorrah than for that town. 
	16 "Behold, I send you out as sheep in the midst of wolves. 
Therefore be wise as serpents and innocent as doves. 17 But beware of 
men, for they will deliver you up to councils and flog you in their 
synagogues. 18 You will be brought before governors and kings for my 
sake, as a testimony to them and to the Gentiles. 19 But when they deliver 
you up, do not worry about how you are to speak or what you are to say; 
for what you are to say will be given to you in that hour; 20 for it is not 
you who speak, but the Spirit of your Father speaking through you. 21 
Now brother will deliver up brother to death, and a father his child; and 
children will rise up against parents and have them put to death. 22 And 
you will be hated by all for my name's sake. But he who endures to the 
end will be saved. 23 When they persecute you in one city, flee to 
another. For truly, I say to you, you will not have gone through the cities 
of Israel before the Son of Man comes. 
	24 "A disciple is not above his teacher, nor a servant above his 
master. 25 It is enough for the disciple to be like his teacher, and the 
servant like his master. If they have called the master of the house 
Beelzebub, how much more will they call those of his household! 
	26 "So do not fear them. For there is nothing covered that will 
not be revealed, or hidden that will not be known. 27 What I tell you in 
the dark, speak in the light; and what you hear whispered in your ear, 
proclaim on the housetops. 28 And do not fear those who kill the body 
but cannot kill the soul. But rather fear him who can destroy both soul 
and body in hell. 29 Are not two sparrows sold for a penny? And not one 
of them will fall to the ground apart from your Father's will. 30 But even 
the very hairs of your head are all numbered. 31 Fear not, therefore; you 
are of more value than many sparrows. 
	32 "Therefore whoever acknowledges me before men, him I will 
also acknowledge before my Father who is in heaven. 33 But whoever 
denies me before men, I will also deny him before my Father who is in 
heaven. 
	34 "Do not think that I have come to bring peace on earth. I did 
not come to bring peace, but a sword. 35 For I have come 
	to set a man 'against his father, 
		and a daughter against her mother, 
	and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law; 
36	and a man's enemies will be those of his own household.'
37 He who loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me; and 
he who loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me; 38 and 
he who does not take his cross and follow me is not worthy of me. 39 He 
who finds his life will lose it, and he who loses his life for my sake will 
find it. 
	40 "He who receives you receives me, and he who receives me 
receives him who sent me. 41 He who receives a prophet because he is a 
prophet shall receive a prophet's reward, and he who receives a righteous 
man because he is a righteous man shall receive a righteous man's reward. 
42 And whoever gives to one of these little ones even a cup of cold water 
because he is a disciple, truly, I say to you, he shall not lose his reward."
11
	1 And when Jesus had finished instructing his twelve disciples, 
he went on from there to teach and preach in their cities. 
	2 Now when John heard in prison about the works of Christ, he 
sent word by his disciples 3 and said to him, "Are you the One who is to 
come, or shall we look for another?" 4 And Jesus answered them, "Go 
and tell John what you hear and see: 5 the blind receive their sight and the 
lame walk, the lepers are cleansed and the deaf hear, and the dead are 
raised up, and the poor have good news preached to them. 6 And blessed 
is he who is not offended because of me." 7 As they went away, Jesus 
began to speak to the crowds concerning John: "What did you go out into 
the wilderness to see? A reed shaken by the wind? 8 But what did you go 
out to see? A man clothed in soft garments? Indeed, those who wear soft 
clothing are in kings' houses. 9 Then what did you go out to see? A 
prophet? Yes, I tell you, and more than a prophet. 10 For this is he of 
whom it is written: 
	'Behold, I send my messenger before your face, 
		who will prepare your way before you.'  
11 Truly, I say to you, among those born of women there has not risen 
one greater than John the Baptist; yet he who is least in the kingdom of 
heaven is greater than he. 12 From the days of John the Baptist until now 
the kingdom of heaven has suffered violence, and men of violence take it 
by force. 13 For all the Prophets and the Law prophesied until John. 14 
And if you are willing to accept it, he is the Elijah who is to come. 15 He 
who has ears to hear, let him hear. 
	16 "But to what shall I compare this generation? It is like 
children sitting in the marketplaces and calling to their companions, 
17	'We played the flute for you, and you did not dance; 
		we sang a dirge, and you did not mourn.'
18 For John came neither eating nor drinking, and they say, 'He has a 
demon.' 19 The Son of Man came eating and drinking, and they say, 
'Look, a glutton and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners!' 
But wisdom is justified by her deeds."
	20 Then he began to rebuke the cities in which most of his 
mighty works had been done, because they did not repent. 21 "Woe to 
you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the mighty works which 
were done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have 
repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes. 22 But I tell you, it will be 
more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon on the day of judgment than for you. 
23 And you, Capernaum, 
	will you be exalted to heaven? 
		You shall be brought down to Hades. 
For if the mighty works which were done in you had been done in Sodom, 
it would have remained until this day. 24 But I tell you that it shall be 
more tolerable on the day of judgment for the land of Sodom than for 
you."
	25 At that time Jesus declared, "I thank you, Father, Lord of 
heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things from the wise and 
intelligent and have revealed them to babes. 26 Yes, Father, for this was 
your good pleasure. 
	27 "All things have been delivered to me by my Father. No one 
knows the Son except the Father, and no one knows the Father except the 
Son and those to whom the Son chooses to reveal him. 28 Come to me, 
all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. 29 Take 
my yoke upon you, and learn from me; for I am gentle and lowly in heart, 
and you will find rest for your souls. 30 For my yoke is easy, and my 
burden is light."
12
	1 At that time Jesus went through the grainfields on the Sabbath. 
And his disciples were hungry, and began to pluck heads of grain and to 
eat. 2 But when the Pharisees saw it, they said to him, "Look, your 
disciples are doing what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath." 3 He said to 
them, "Have you not read what David did, when he was hungry, and those 
who were with him: 4 how he entered the house of God and ate the 
consecrated bread which was not lawful for him to eat, nor for those who 
were with him, but only for the priests? 5 Or have you not read in the Law 
that on the Sabbath the priests in the temple profane the Sabbath, and are 
innocent? 6 I tell you that one greater than the temple is here. 7 And if 
you had known what this means, 'I desire mercy, and not sacrifice,' you 
would not have condemned the guiltless. 8 For the Son of Man is Lord of 
the Sabbath." 
	9 And he went on from there, and went into their synagogue. 10 
And behold, there was a man with a withered hand. And they asked him, 
"Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath?" so that they might accuse him. 11 
He said to them, "What man of you, if he has one sheep and it falls into a 
pit on the Sabbath, will not lay hold of it and lift it out? 12 Of how much 
more value is a man than a sheep! Therefore it is lawful to do good on the 
Sabbath." 13 Then he said to the man, "Stretch out your hand." And he 
stretched it out, and it was restored as whole as the other. 14 But the 
Pharisees went out and plotted against him, how they might destroy him. 
	15 Jesus, aware of this, withdrew from there. And many followed 
him, and he healed them all, 16 and ordered them not to make him known. 
17 This was to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah: 
18	"Behold, my servant whom I have chosen, 
		my beloved in whom my soul is well pleased! 
	I will put my Spirit upon him, 
		and he will proclaim justice to the Gentiles. 
19	He will not quarrel or cry out; 
		nor will anyone hear his voice in the streets. 
20	A bruised reed he will not break, 
		and a smoldering wick he will not quench, 
	till he sends forth justice to victory; 
21		and in his name will the Gentiles hope."
	22 Then they brought to him a demon-possessed man who was 
blind and mute, and he healed him, so that the mute man both spoke and 
saw. 23 And all the people were amazed and said, "Could this be the Son 
of David?" 24 But when the Pharisees heard this they said, "It is only by 
Beelzebub, the prince of demons, that this fellow drives out demons." 25 
Jesus knew their thoughts and said to them, "Every kingdom divided 
against itself is laid waste, and every city or house divided against itself 
will not stand. 26 If Satan casts out Satan, he is divided against himself. 
How then will his kingdom stand? 27 And if I cast out demons by 
Beelzebub, by whom do your sons cast them out? Therefore they shall be 
your judges. 28 But if I cast out demons by the Spirit of God, then the 
kingdom of God has come upon you. 29 Or how can one enter a strong 
man's house and plunder his goods, unless he first binds the strong man? 
And then he will plunder his house. 30 He who is not with me is against 
me, and he who does not gather with me scatters. 31 Therefore I tell you, 
every sin and blasphemy will be forgiven men, but the blasphemy against 
the Spirit will not be forgiven. 32 Anyone who speaks a word against the 
Son of Man will be forgiven; but whoever speaks against the Holy Spirit 
will not be forgiven, either in this age or in the age to come. 
	33 "Either make the tree good, and its fruit good; or make the 
tree bad, and its fruit bad; for a tree is known by its fruit. 34 You brood 
of vipers! how can you speak good, when you are evil? For out of the 
abundance of the heart the mouth speaks. 35 The good man out of the 
good treasure of his heart brings forth good things, and an evil man out of 
the evil treasure brings forth evil things. 36 But I tell you that men will 
have to give account on the day of judgment for every careless word they 
have spoken. 37 For by your words you will be justified, and by your 
words you will be condemned."
	38 Then some of the scribes and Pharisees said to him, "Teacher, 
we want to see a sign from you." 39 But he answered them, "An evil and 
adulterous generation seeks for a sign; but no sign will be given to it 
except the sign of the prophet Jonah. 40 For as Jonah was three days and 
three nights in the belly of the great fish, so the Son of Man will be three 
days and three nights in the heart of the earth. 41 The men of Nineveh 
will stand up at the judgment with this generation and condemn it; for 
they repented at the preaching of Jonah, and now one greater than Jonah 
is here. 42 The queen of the South will rise at the judgment with this 
generation and condemn it; for she came from the ends of the earth to 
hear the wisdom of Solomon, and behold, something greater than 
Solomon is here. 
	43 "When an unclean spirit goes out of a man, he goes through 
dry places, seeking rest, and finds none. 44 Then he says, 'I will return to 
my house from which I came.' And when he comes he finds it empty, 
swept, and put in order. 45 Then he goes and takes with him seven other 
spirits more wicked than himself, and they enter and dwell there; and the 
last state of that man is worse than the first. So shall it also be with this 
wicked generation." 
	46 While he was still talking to the people, behold, his mother 
and brothers stood outside, seeking to speak to him. 47 Someone told 
him, "Your mother and brothers are standing outside, wanting to speak to 
you." 48 But he replied to the man who told him, "Who is my mother, 
and who are my brothers?" 49 And stretching out his hand toward his 
disciples, he said, "Here are my mother and my brothers! 50 For whoever 
does the will of my Father in heaven is my brother and sister and mother."
13
	1 That same day Jesus went out of the house and sat by the sea. 
2 And great crowds gathered around him, so that he got into a boat and 
sat there; and the whole crowd stood on the shore. 3 Then he told them 
many things in parables, saying: "A sower went out to sow his seed. 4 
And as he sowed, some seed fell along the path, and the birds came and 
devoured them. 5 Some fell on rocky places, where they did not have 
much soil, and they immediately sprang up because they had no depth of 
soil. 6 But when the sun was up they were scorched, and because they 
had no root they withered away. 7 Other seed fell among thorns, and the 
thorns grew up and choked them. 8 But other seed fell on good soil and 
yielded a crop: some a hundredfold, some sixty, some thirty. 9 He who 
has ears, let him hear."
	10 The disciples came and said to him, "Why do you speak to 
them in parables?" 11 And he answered them, "To you it has been given 
to know the secrets of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it has not been 
given. 12 For whoever has, to him will more be given, and he will have 
abundance; but whoever does not have, even what he has will be taken 
away from him. 13 This is why I speak to them in parables, because 
seeing they do not see, and hearing they do not hear, nor do they 
understand. 14 In them is fulfilled the prophecy of Isaiah which says: 
	'Hearing you will hear and shall not understand; 
		and seeing you will see and not perceive.
15	For this people's heart has grown dull. 
		And their ears are hard of hearing, 
			and their eyes they have closed, 
			lest they should see with their eyes, 
		and hear with their ears, 
	and they understand with their hearts, 
		and turn so that I should heal them.'
16 But blessed are your eyes for they see, and your ears for they hear. 17 
For truly, I say to you, many prophets and righteous men longed to see 
what you see, and did not see it, and to hear what you hear, and did not 
hear it. 
	18 "Hear then the parable of the sower: 19 when anyone hears 
the word of the kingdom and does not understand it, the evil one comes 
and snatches away what was sown in his heart. This is the seed sown 
along the path. 20 But he who received the seed on rocky places, this is 
he who hears the word and immediately receives it with joy; 21 yet he has 
no root in himself, but endures only for a while. And when tribulation or 
persecution arises because of the word, immediately he falls away. 22 
Now he who received seed among the thorns is he who hears the word, 
but the cares of this world and the deceitfulness of riches choke the word, 
and he becomes unfruitful. 23 But the one who received seed on the good 
soil is he who hears the word and understands it, who indeed bears fruit 
and produces: some a hundredfold, some sixty, some thirty."
	24 Another parable he put forth to them, saying: "The kingdom 
of heaven is like a man who sowed good seed in his field; 25 but while 
men were sleeping, his enemy came and sowed weeds among the wheat, 
and went away. 26 So when the plants sprouted and bore grain, then the 
weeds appeared also. 27 And the servants of the householder came and 
said to him, 'Sir, did you not sow good seed in your field? How then has 
it weeds?' 28 He said to them, 'An enemy has done this.'  The servants 
said to him, 'Then do you want us to go and gather them up?'  29 But he 
said, 'No, lest while you gather up the weeds you also root up the wheat 
with them. 30 Let both grow together until the harvest; and at harvest time 
I will tell the reapers. Gather the weeds first and bind them in bundles to 
be burned, but gather the wheat into my barn.'"
	31 Another parable he put forth to them, saying: "The kingdom 
of heaven is like a mustard seed, which a man took and sowed in his field; 
32 it is the smallest of all seeds, but when it has grown it is the greatest of 
shrubs and becomes a tree, so that the birds of the air come and make 
nests in its branches."
	33 He told them another parable: "The kingdom of heaven is like 
leaven, which a woman took and hid in three measures of flour till it was 
all leavened."
	34 All these things Jesus spoke to the crowd in parables; and 
without a parable he did not speak to them. 35 So was fulfilled what was 
spoken by the prophet: 
	"I will open my mouth in parables, 
		I will utter things hidden 
			since the foundation of the world."
	36 Then he left the crowd and went into the house. And his 
disciples came to him, saying, "Explain to us the parable of the weeds of 
the field." 37 He answered, "He who sows the good seed is the Son of 
Man; 38 the field is the world, and the good seed stands for the sons of 
the kingdom. The weeds are the sons of the evil one, 39 and the enemy 
who sowed them is the devil; the harvest is the end of the age, and the 
reapers are angels. 40 Therefore as the weeds are gathered and burned in 
the fire, so it will be at the end of this age. 41 The Son of Man will send 
out his angels, and they will gather out of his kingdom everything that 
causes sin and all who do evil, 42 and will throw them into the furnace of 
fire, where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. 43 Then the 
righteous will shine like the sun in the kingdom of their Father. He who 
has ears, let him hear. 
	44 "Again, the kingdom of heaven is like treasure hidden in a 
field, which a man found and hid; and then in his joy over it he goes and 
sells all that he has and buys that field. 
	45 "Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a merchant in search of 
fine pearls, 46 who, when he had found one pearl of great value, went and 
sold all that he had and bought it. 
	47 "Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a net that was thrown 
into the sea and gathered fish of every kind; 48 which, when it was full, 
they drew it up on the shore; and they sat down and gathered the good 
into vessels, but threw the bad away. 49 So it will be at the end of the age. 
The angels will come and separate the wicked from the righteous 50 and 
throw them into the furnace of fire, where there will be weeping and 
gnashing of teeth."
	51 Jesus asked, "Have you understood all these things?" "Yes," 
they said to him. 52 And he said to them, "Therefore every scribe who has 
been instructed for the kingdom of heaven is like a householder who 
brings out of his treasure what is new and what is old."
	53 When Jesus had finished these parables, he moved on from 
there. 54 And coming to his own country he taught them in their 
synagogue, so that they were astonished, and said, "Where did this man 
get this wisdom and these mighty works? 55 Is this not the carpenter's 
son? Is not his mother called Mary? And his brothers James, Joseph, 
Simon, and Judas? 56 And are not all his sisters with us? Where then did 
this man get all these things?" 57 And they took offense at him. But Jesus 
said to them, "A prophet is not without honor except in his own country 
and in his own house." 58 And he did not do many mighty works there, 
because of their unbelief. 
14
	1 At that time Herod the tetrarch heard the reports about Jesus, 2 
and he said to his servants, "This is John the Baptist, he has risen from 
the dead; that is why these powers are at work in him." 3 For Herod had 
laid hold of John and bound him, and put him in prison for the sake of 
Herodias, his brother Philip's wife, 4 because John had said to him, "It is 
not lawful for you to have her." 5 And though he wanted to put him to 
death, he feared the people, because they held him to be a prophet. 6 But 
when Herod's birthday was celebrated, the daughter of Herodias danced 
before them and pleased Herod, 7 so that he promised with an oath to give 
her whatever she might ask. 8 Prompted by her mother, she said, "Give me 
here on a platter the head of John the Baptist." 9 And the king was sorry; 
but, because of his oaths and his guests, he commanded it to be given to 
her; 10 so he sent and had John beheaded in prison. 11 And his head was 
brought on a platter and given to the girl, and she brought it to her 
mother. 12 Then his disciples came and took the body and buried it; and 
they went and told Jesus. 
	13 Now when Jesus heard this, he withdrew from there in a boat 
to a lonely place by himself. But when the crowds heard it, they followed 
him on foot from the towns. 14 When Jesus went ashore he saw a great 
throng; and he had compassion on them, and healed their sick. 15 When 
it was evening, the disciples came to him and said, "This is a remote 
place, and it's already getting late. Send the crowds away, so they can go 
to the villages and buy themselves some food." 16 Jesus said, "They do 
not need to go away. You give them something to eat." 17 They said to 
him, "We have only five loaves here and two fish." 18 He said, "Bring 
them here to me," 19 Then he commanded the multitudes to sit down on 
the grass. And taking the five loaves and the two fish, and looking up to 
heaven, he blessed and broke and gave the loaves to the disciples; and the 
disciples gave them to the multitudes. 20 And they all ate and were 
satisfied. And they took up twelve baskets full of the broken pieces that 
were left over. 21 Now those who ate were about five thousand men, 
besides women and children. 
	22 Immediately Jesus made the disciples get into the boat and go 
before him to the other side, while he dismissed the multitudes. 23 And 
after he had dismissed the crowds, he went up on the mountain by himself 
to pray. When evening came, he was there alone, 24 but the boat by this 
time was many furlongs distant from the land, beaten by the waves; for 
the wind was against them. 25 And in the fourth watch of the night Jesus 
went to them, walking on the sea. 26 But when the disciples saw him 
walking on the sea, they were terrified, saying, "It is a ghost!" And they 
cried out for fear. 27 But immediately Jesus spoke to them, saying, "Take 
courage! It is I; do not be afraid." 28 And Peter answered him, "Lord, if it 
is you, command me to come to you on the water." 29 So he said, 
"Come". Then Peter got down out of the boat, walked on the water, and 
came toward Jesus. 30 But when he saw the wind, he was afraid, and 
beginning to sink he cried out, "Lord, save me!" 31 Jesus immediately 
reached out his hand and caught him, and said to him, "O you of little 
faith, why did you doubt?" 32 And when they got into the boat, the wind 
ceased. 33 Then those who were in the boat worshipped him, saying, 
"Truly you are the Son of God."
	34 When they had crossed over, they came to land at Gennesaret. 
35 And when the men of that place recognized him, they sent to all that 
surrounding region and brought to him all who were sick, 36 and begged 
him that they might only touch the fringe of his garment; and as many as 
touched it were made well. 
15
	1 Then the scribes and Pharisees who were from Jerusalem came 
to Jesus and said, 2 "Why do your disciples transgress the tradition of the 
elders? For they do not wash their hands when they eat." 3 He answered 
them, "And why do you transgress the commandment of God for the sake 
of your tradition? 4 For God commanded, 'Honor your father and your 
mother'; and, 'He who curses father or mother, let him be put to death.' 5 
But you say that if a man says to his father or mother, 'Whatever help you 
might have received from me is a gift to God' 6 he is not to honor his 
father with it. Thus you have made the word of God of no effect for the 
sake of your tradition. 7 You hypocrites! Well did Isaiah prophesy about 
you, when he said: 
8	'These people honor me with their lips, 
		but their heart is far from me. 
9	In vain do they worship me, 
		teaching as doctrines the precepts of men.'"
	10 And he called the people to him and said to them, "Hear and 
understand: 11 not what goes into the mouth defiles a man, but what 
comes out of the mouth, this defiles a man." 12 Then the disciples came 
and said to him, "Do you know that the Pharisees were offended when 
they heard this saying?" 13 He answered, "Every plant which my heavenly 
Father has not planted will be rooted up. 14 Let them alone; they are 
blind guides. And if a blind man leads a blind man, both will fall into a 
pit." 15 But Peter said to him, "Explain the parable to us." 16 So Jesus 
said, "Are you also still without understanding? 17 Do you not yet see 
that whatever enters the mouth goes into the stomach and is eliminated? 
18 But those things which proceed out of the mouth come from the heart, 
and they defile a man. 19 For out of the heart come evil thoughts, murder, 
adultery, fornications, theft, false witness, slander. 20 These are what 
defile a man; but to eat with unwashed hands does not defile a man."
	21 And Jesus went away from there and withdrew to the region 
of Tyre and Sidon. 22 And behold, a Canaanite woman from that region 
came out and cried to him, "Have mercy on me, O Lord, Son of David! 
My daughter is severely demon-possessed." 23 But he did not answer her 
a word. And his disciples came and urged him, saying, "Send her away, 
for she is crying out after us." 24 He answered, "I was sent only to the 
lost sheep of the house of Israel." 25 But she came and knelt before him, 
saying, "Lord, help me!" 26 And he answered, "It is not good to take the 
children's bread and throw it to the dogs." 27 "Yes, Lord," she said, "yet 
even the dogs eat the crumbs that fall from their masters' table." 28 Then 
Jesus answered her, "O woman, great is your faith! Be it done for you as 
you desire." And her daughter was healed from that very hour. 29 And 
Jesus went on from there and passed along the Sea of Galilee. And he 
went up on the mountain, and sat down there. 30 Then great crowds came 
to him, bringing with them the lame, the maimed, the blind, the mute, and 
many others; and they laid them down at his feet, and he healed them. 31 
So the multitude marveled when they saw the mute speaking, the maimed 
made whole, the lame walking, and the blind seeing; and they glorified 
the God of Israel. 
	32 Now Jesus called his disciples to him and said, "I have 
compassion on the multitude, because they have been with me three days 
and have nothing to eat. And I do not want to send them away hungry, lest 
they faint on the way." 33 Then his disciples said to him, "Where could 
we get enough bread in the wilderness to feed such a great crowd?" 34 
And Jesus said to them, "How many loaves do you have?" They said, 
"Seven, and a few small fish." 35 He told the crowd to sit down on the 
ground. 36 Then he took the seven loaves and the fish, and having given 
thanks he broke them and gave them to the disciples, and the disciples 
gave them to the crowds. 37 And they all ate and were satisfied; and they 
took up seven baskets full of the broken pieces that were left over. 38 
Now those who ate were four thousand men, besides women and children. 
39 And he sent away the crowds, got into the boat, and went to the region 
of Magadan. 
16
	1 Then the Pharisees and Sadducees came, and to test him they 
asked him to show them a sign from heaven. 2 He answered them, "When 
it is evening, you say, 'It will be fair weather; for the sky is red.' 3 And in 
the morning, 'It will be stormy today, for the sky is red and threatening.' 
You know how to interpret the appearance of the sky, but you cannot 
interpret the signs of the times. 4 A wicked and adulterous generation 
seeks for a sign, but no sign shall be given to it except the sign of Jonah." 
So he left them and departed. 
	5 When the disciples reached the other side, they had forgotten 
to take bread. 6 Then Jesus said to them, "Take heed and beware of the 
leaven of the Pharisees and the Sadducees." 7 And they discussed among 
themselves, saying, "It is because we have taken no bread." 8 But Jesus, 
aware of this, said, "O men of little faith, why do you discuss among 
yourselves the fact that you have no bread? 9 Do you not yet perceive? Do 
you not remember the five loaves of the five thousand, and how many 
baskets you gathered? 10 Or the seven loaves of the four thousand, and 
how many baskets you gathered? 11 How is it that you do not understand 
that I did not speak to you about bread? But beware of the leaven of the 
Pharisees and Sadducees." 12 Then they understood that he did not tell 
them to beware of the leaven of bread, but of the teaching of the Pharisees 
and Sadducees. 
	13 When Jesus came into the region of Caesarea Philippi, he 
asked his disciples, "Who do men say that the Son of Man is?" 14 And 
they said, "Some say John the Baptist, others say Elijah, and others 
Jeremiah or one of the prophets." 15 He said to them, "But who do you 
say that I am?" 16 Simon Peter answered, "You are the Christ, the Son of 
the living God." 17 And Jesus answered him, "Blessed are you, Simon 
Bar-Jonah! For flesh and blood has not revealed this to you, but my 
Father who is in heaven. 18 And I tell you, that you are Peter, and on this 
rock I will build my church, and the gates of Hades shall not prevail 
against it. 19 I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and 
whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven, and whatever you 
loose on earth will be loosed in heaven." 20 Then he strictly charged his 
disciples to tell no one that he was the Christ. 
	21 From that time Jesus began to show to his disciples that he 
must go to Jerusalem, and suffer many things from the elders and chief 
priests and scribes, and be killed, and be raised on the third day. 22 Peter 
took him aside and began to rebuke him saying, "Never, Lord! This shall 
never happen to you!" 23 But he turned and said to Peter, "Get behind 
me, Satan! You are a stumbling block to me; for you are not mindful of 
the things of God, but the things of men." 24 Then Jesus said to his 
disciples, "If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take 
up his cross and follow me. 25 For whoever desires to save his life will 
lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. 26 What good 
will it be for a man if he gains the whole world, and forfeits his soul? Or 
what can a man give in exchange for his soul? 27 For the Son of Man is 
to come with his angels in the glory of his Father, and then he will reward 
each man according to what he has done. 28 Truly, I say to you, there are 
some standing here who will not taste death before they see the Son of 
Man coming in his kingdom." 
17
	1 After six days Jesus took with him Peter, James, and John his 
brother, and led them up a high mountain by themselves. 2 And he was 
transfigured before them. His face shone like the sun, and his clothes 
became as white as the light. 3 And behold, there appeared to them Moses 
and Elijah, talking with him. 4 And Peter said to Jesus, "Lord, it is good 
for us to be here; if you wish, I will make here three tabernacles—one for 
you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah." 5 While he was still speaking, 
behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them; and a voice from the cloud 
said, "This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased. Listen to 
him!" 6 When the disciples heard this, they fell on their faces, and were 
filled with awe. 7 But Jesus came and touched them and said, "Rise. 
Don't be afraid." 8 And when they lifted up their eyes, they saw no one 
but Jesus only. 
	9 And as they were coming down the mountain, Jesus 
commanded them, "Tell no one the vision, until the Son of Man is raised 
from the dead." 10 And the disciples asked him, "Why then do the scribes 
say that Elijah must come first?" 11 Jesus replied, "Elijah is coming first 
and will restore all things. 12 But I tell you that Elijah has come already, 
and they did not know him but did to him whatever they wished. So also 
the Son of Man is about to suffer at their hands." 13 Then the disciples 
understood that he was speaking to them of John the Baptist. 
	14 And when they came to the crowd, a man came up to him and 
kneeling before him said, 15 "Lord, have mercy on my son, for he is an 
epileptic and he suffers terribly; for often he falls into the fire, and often 
into the water. 16 And I brought him to your disciples, but they could not 
heal him." 17 Then Jesus answered, "O faithless and perverse generation, 
how long shall I be with you? How long shall I bear with you? Bring him 
here to me." 18 And Jesus rebuked the demon, and it came out of him, 
and the boy was cured from that moment. 19 Then the disciples came to 
Jesus privately and said, "Why could we not cast it out?" 20 So he said to 
them, "Because of your little faith. For truly, I say to you, if you have 
faith as a grain of mustard seed, you will say to this mountain, 'Move 
from here to there,' and it will move; and nothing will be impossible to 
you." 
	22 Now while they were staying in Galilee, Jesus said to them, 
"The Son of Man is about to be betrayed into the hands of men, 23 and 
they will kill him, and he will be raised on the third day." And they were 
greatly distressed. 
	24 When they came to Capernaum, the collectors of the half-
shekel tax went up to Peter and said, "Does not your teacher pay the 
temple tax?" 25 He said, "Yes." And when he came into the house, Jesus 
spoke to him first, saying, "What do you think, Simon? From whom do 
the kings of the earth take customs or taxes, from their sons or from 
others?" 26 And when Peter said, "From others," Jesus said to him, "Then 
the sons are free. 27 Nevertheless, so that we may not offend them, go to 
the sea, cast in a hook, and take the fish that comes up first. And when 
you open its mouth, you will find a piece of money; take that and give it 
to them for me and you." 
18
	1 At that time the disciples came to Jesus, saying, "Who is the 
greatest in the kingdom of heaven?" 2 He called to him a little child, and 
put him in the midst of them, 3 and he said, "Truly, I say to you, unless 
you turn and become like little children, you will never enter the kingdom 
of heaven. 4 Therefore, whoever humbles himself like this child is the 
greatest in the kingdom of heaven. 5 Whoever receives one little child like 
this in my name receives me. 
	6 "But whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me 
to sin, it would be better for him to have a large millstone hung around 
his neck and to be drowned in the depth of the sea. 7 Woe to the world 
because of temptations to sin! For temptations must come, but woe to the 
man by whom the temptation comes! 8 And if your hand or your foot 
causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away. It is better for you to enter 
life maimed or lame than with two hands or two feet to be thrown into the 
eternal fire. 9 And if your eye causes you to sin, pluck it out and throw it 
away. It is better for you to enter life with one eye than to have two eyes 
and be thrown into the fire of hell. 
	10 "See that you do not despise one of these little ones. For I tell 
you that in heaven their angels always see the face of my Father who is in 
heaven. 12 What do you think? If a man has a hundred sheep, and one of 
them has gone astray, does he not leave the ninety-nine and go to the 
mountains in search of the one that went astray? 13 And if he finds it, 
truly, I say to you, he rejoices more over that sheep than over the ninety-
nine that did not go astray. 14 So it is not the will of your Father who is 
in heaven that one of these little ones should perish. 
	15 "If your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault, 
between you and him alone. If he listens to you, you have gained your 
brother. 16 But if he will not listen, take one or two others along with 
you, so that 'every matter may be established by the word of two or three 
witnesses.' 17 If he refuses to listen to them, tell it to the church; and if 
he refuses to listen even to the church, let him be to you as a Gentile and 
a tax collector. 
	18 "Truly, I say to you, whatever you bind on earth will be 
bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in 
heaven. 19 Again I say to you, that if two of you agree on earth about 
anything they ask, it will be done for them by my Father in heaven. 20 For 
where two or three are gathered together in my name, there am I in the 
midst of them."
	21 Then Peter came to him and said, "Lord, how often shall my 
brother sin against me, and I forgive him? Up to seven times?" 22 Jesus 
said to him, "I do not say to you seven times, but seventy times seven. 23 
Therefore the kingdom of heaven is like a certain king who wanted to 
settle accounts with his servants. 24 When he began the settlement, one 
was brought to him who owed him ten thousand talents. 25 And as he was 
not able to pay, his master ordered that he be sold, with his wife and 
children and all that he had, and payment to be made. 26 So the servant 
fell on his knees before him, saying, 'Have patience with me, and I will 
pay you everything.' 27 The master of that servant took pity on him, 
released him, and forgave him the debt. 28 But that servant went out and 
found one of his fellow servants who owed him a hundred denarii; and he 
laid hands on him and took him by the throat, saying, 'Pay me what you 
owe.' 29 So his fellow servant fell down at his feet and begged him, 
'Have patience with me, and I will pay you back.' 30 But he refused, and 
went and threw him into prison till he should pay the debt. 31 When his 
fellow servants saw what had taken place, they were greatly distressed, 
and went and told their master all that had happened. 32 Then his master, 
after he had called him, said to him, 'You wicked servant! I forgave you 
all that debt because you begged me. 33 Should not you have had mercy 
on your fellow servant, just as I had mercy on you?' 34 And in anger his 
master delivered him to the jailers to be tortured, until he should pay back 
all he owed. 35 So also my heavenly Father will do to each of you, if you 
do not forgive your brother from your heart."
19
	1 Now when Jesus had finished these sayings, he went away 
from Galilee and entered the region of Judea beyond the Jordan. 2 And 
large crowds followed him, and he healed them there. 3 Some Pharisees 
came to him to test him. They asked, "Is it lawful for a man to divorce his 
wife for any and every reason?" 4 And he answered them, "Have you not 
read that he who made them at the beginning 'made them male and 
female,' 5 and said, 'For this reason a man shall leave his father and 
mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh'? 6 
So they are no longer two, but one flesh. Therefore what God has joined 
together, let man not separate." 7 They said to him, "Why then did Moses 
command one to give a certificate of divorce, and to put her away?" 8 He 
said to them, "Because of the hardness of your hearts Moses permitted 
you to divorce your wives, but from the beginning it was not so. 9 And I 
say to you, whoever divorces his wife, except for immorality, and marries 
another woman commits adultery." 10 The disciples said to him, "If such 
is the case of a man with his wife, it is better not to marry." 11 But he 
said to them, "Not all men can accept this saying, but only those to whom 
it has been given. 12 For there are eunuchs who were born that way from 
their mother's womb, and there are eunuchs who were made eunuchs by 
men, and there are eunuchs who have made themselves eunuchs for the 
sake of the kingdom of heaven. He who is able to accept it, let him accept 
it." 
	13 Then little children were brought to him that he might put his 
hands on them and pray, but the disciples rebuked them. 14 But Jesus 
said, "Let the little children come to me, and do not hinder them; for to 
such belongs the kingdom of heaven." 15 And he laid his hands on them 
and went from there. 
	16 Now behold, one came up and said to him, "Teacher, what 
good thing must I do to have eternal life?" 17 And he said to him, "Why 
do you ask me about what is good? There is only one who is good. If you 
want to enter life, keep the commandments." 18 He said to him, "Which 
ones?" And Jesus said, "'You shall not murder, you shall not commit 
adultery, you shall not steal, you shall not bear false witness, 19 honor 
your father and mother, and, you shall love your neighbor as yourself.'" 
20 The young man said to him, "All these I have kept. What do I still 
lack?" 21 Jesus said to him, "If you want to be perfect, go, sell what you 
possess and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and 
come, follow me." 22 But when the young man heard this, he went away 
sorrowful, for he had great possessions. 
	23 Then Jesus said to his disciples, "Truly I say to you, it is hard 
for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven. 24 Again I tell you, it is 
easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to 
enter the kingdom of God." 25 When the disciples heard this they were 
greatly astonished, saying, "Who then can be saved?" 26 But Jesus 
looked at them and said to them, "With men this is impossible, but with 
God all things are possible." 27 Then Peter answered him, "Behold, we 
have left everything and followed you. What then shall we have?" 28 
Jesus said to them, "Truly I say to you, at the renewal of all things, when 
the Son of Man sits on his glorious throne, you who have followed me 
will also sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. 29 And 
every one who has left houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or 
children or lands, for my name's sake, will receive a hundredfold, and 
inherit eternal life. 30 But many who are first will be last, and the last 
first. 
20
	1 "For the kingdom of heaven is like a landowner who went out 
early in the morning to hire laborers for his vineyard. 2 Now when he had 
agreed with the laborers for a denarius a day, he sent them into his 
vineyard. 3 And he went out about the third hour and saw others standing 
idle in the marketplace, 4 and to them he said, 'You go into the vineyard 
too, and whatever is right I will give you.' So they went. 5 Again he went 
out about the sixth hour and the ninth hour, and did the same thing. 6 
And about the eleventh hour he went out and found others standing idle, 
and said to them, 'Why have you been standing here idle all day?' 7 They 
said to him, 'Because no one has hired us.' He said to them, 'You also go 
into the vineyard, and whatever is right you will receive.' 8 And when 
evening came, the owner of the vineyard said to his steward, 'Call the 
laborers and pay them their wages, beginning with the last, up to the 
first.' 9 And when those came who were hired about the eleventh hour, 
they each received a denarius. 10 So when the first came, they thought 
they would receive more; but each of them also received a denarius. 11 
And when they had received it, they complained against the landowner, 
12 saying, 'These last men have worked only one hour, and you made 
them equal to us who have borne the burden and the heat of the day.' 13 
But he answered one of them, 'Friend, I am doing you no wrong. Did you 
not agree with me for a denarius? 14 Take what is yours and go your way. 
I wish to give to this last man the same as I gave to you. 15 Is it not lawful 
for me to do what I want with my own money? Or are you envious 
because I am generous?' 16 So the last will be first, and the first will be 
last."
	17 Now as Jesus was going up to Jerusalem, he took the twelve 
disciples aside, and on the way he said to them, 18 "Behold, we are going 
up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be betrayed to the chief priests 
and to the scribes; and they will condemn him to death, 19 and deliver 
him to the Gentiles to be mocked and scourged and crucified, and he will 
be raised on the third day."
	20 Then the mother of Zebedee's sons came to him with her sons 
and, kneeling down, asked something of him. 21 And he said to her, 
"What do you want?" She said to him, "Grant that these two sons of mine 
may sit, one at your right hand and one at your left, in your kingdom." 22 
But Jesus answered, "You do not know what you are asking for. Are you 
able to drink the cup that I am about to drink?" They said to him, "We are 
able." 23 He said to them, "You will indeed drink my cup, but to sit at my 
right or my left is not mine to grant, but it is for those for whom it has 
been prepared by my Father." 24 And when the ten heard it, they were 
indignant with the two brothers. 25 But Jesus called them to him and 
said, "You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and their 
great men exercise authority over them. 26 Yet it shall not be so among 
you; but whoever desires to become great among you must be your 
servant. 27 And whoever wants to be first among you must be your 
slave—28 just as the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, 
and to give his life as a ransom for many."
	29 And as they went out of Jericho, a great crowd followed him. 
30 And behold, two blind men sitting by the roadside, when they heard 
that Jesus was passing by, cried out, "Lord, have mercy on us, Son of 
David!" 31 The crowd rebuked them, telling them to be quiet; but they 
cried out all the more, "Lord, have mercy on us, Son of David!" 32 And 
Jesus stopped and called them, saying, "What do you want me to do for 
you? " 33 They said to him, "Lord, let our eyes be opened." 34 And Jesus 
had compassion on them and touched their eyes. Immediately they 
received their sight and followed him. 
21
	1 Now when they drew near Jerusalem, and came to Bethphage, 
at the Mount of Olives, Jesus sent two disciples, 2 saying to them, "Go 
into the village opposite you, and immediately you will find a donkey 
tied, and a colt with her. Untie them and bring them to me. 3 If any one 
says anything to you, you shall say, 'The Lord has need of them,' and he 
will send them immediately." 4 This took place to fulfill what was spoken 
by the prophet, saying: 
5	"Tell the daughter of Zion, 
	'Behold, your King is coming to you, 
		lowly, and sitting on a donkey, 
			a colt, the foal of a donkey.'"
6 The disciples went and did as Jesus had instructed them. 7 They 
brought the donkey and the colt, placed their cloaks on them, and Jesus 
sat on them. 8 And a very large crowd spread their cloaks on the road, 
while others cut branches from the trees and spread them on the road. 9 
The crowds that went before him and those that followed shouted, 
	"Hosanna to the Son of David! 
		Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord! 
	Hosanna in the highest!" 
10 And when he entered Jerusalem, all the city was stirred, saying, "Who 
is this?" 11 So the crowds said, "This is Jesus, the prophet from Nazareth 
of Galilee."
	12 And Jesus entered the temple of God and drove out all who 
sold and bought in the temple, and he overturned the tables of the money-
changers and the seats of those who sold doves. 13 And he said to them, 
"It is written, 
	'My house shall be called a house of prayer,' 
		but you have made it a 'den of robbers.'"
	14 And the blind and the lame came to him in the temple, and he 
healed them. 15 But when the chief priests and the scribes saw the 
wonderful things that he did, and the children crying out in the temple, 
"Hosanna to the Son of David!" they were indignant; 16 and they said to 
him, "Do you hear what these are saying?" And Jesus said to them, "Yes. 
Have you never read, 'Out of the mouth of babes and nursing infants you 
have perfected praise'?" 17 Then he left them and went out of the city to 
Bethany, and he lodged there. 
	18 In the morning, as he was returning to the city, he was 
hungry. 19 And seeing a fig tree by the road he went to it, and found 
nothing on it but leaves only. And he said to it, "May no fruit ever come 
from you again!" And immediately the fig tree withered. 20 And when the 
disciples saw it, they marveled, saying, "How did the fig tree wither away 
so soon?" 21 And Jesus answered them, "Truly, I say to you, if you have 
faith and do not doubt, you will not only do what was done to the fig tree, 
but even if you say to this mountain, 'Be taken up and cast into the sea,' 
it will be done. 22 And whatever you ask in prayer, you will receive, if 
you have faith."
	23 And when he entered the temple, the chief priests and the 
elders of the people came up to him as he was teaching, and said, "By 
what authority are you doing these things, and who gave you this 
authority?" 24 Jesus answered them, "I also will ask you one question; 
and if you tell me the answer, then I also will tell you by what authority I 
do these things. 25 The baptism of John—where was it from? From 
heaven or from men?" And they reasoned among themselves, saying, "If 
we say, 'From heaven,' he will say to us, 'Why then did you not believe 
him?' 26 But if we say, 'From men,' we are afraid of the multitude; for all 
hold that John was a prophet." 27 So they answered Jesus, "We do not 
know." And he said to them, "Neither will I tell you by what authority I 
do these things. 
	28 "What do you think? A man had two sons; and he went to the 
first and said, 'Son, go and work in the vineyard today.' 29 He answered, 
'I will not,' but afterward he regretted it and went. 30 Then he went to the 
second and said the same thing. And he answered, 'I go, sir,' but he did 
not go. 31 Which of the two did the will of his father?" They said, "The 
first." Jesus said to them, "Truly, I say to you, the tax collectors and the 
harlots go into the kingdom of God before you. 32 For John came to you 
in the way of righteousness, and you did not believe him, but the tax 
collectors and the harlots believed him; and even when you saw it, you 
did not afterward repent and believe him. 
	33 "Hear another parable: there was a landowner who planted a 
vineyard and set a hedge around it, dug a wine press in it and built a 
tower. And he leased it to vine dressers and went into a far country. 34 
When the harvest time drew near, he sent his servants to the tenants, to 
get his fruit. 35 And the tenants took his servants, beat one, killed one, 
and stoned another. 36 Again he sent other servants, more than the first, 
and they did the same to them. 37 Last of all, he sent his son to them 
saying, 'They will respect my son,' 38 But when the tenants saw the son, 
they said to themselves, 'This is the heir. Come, let us kill him and seize 
his inheritance.' 39 So they took him and cast him out of the vineyard and 
killed him. 40 Therefore, when the owner of the vineyard comes, what 
will he do to those tenants?" 41 They said to him, "He will put those 
wretches to a miserable death, and let out the vineyard to other tenants 
who will give him the fruits in their seasons." 42 Jesus said to them, 
"Have you never read in the Scriptures: 
	'The stone which the builders rejected 
		has become the chief cornerstone; 
	this was the Lord's doing, 
		and it is marvelous in our eyes'? 
43 "Therefore I tell you, the kingdom of God will be taken away from you 
and given to a nation bearing the fruits of it. 44 [And he who falls on this 
stone will be broken to pieces; but on whomever it falls, it will grind him 
to powder."]
	45 When the chief priests and the Pharisees heard his parables, 
they perceived that he was speaking about them. 46 But when they tried 
to arrest him, they feared the multitudes, because they held him to be a 
prophet. 
22
	1 And again Jesus spoke to them in parables, saying: 2 "The 
kingdom of heaven is like a king who arranged a marriage for his son, 3 
and sent out his servants to call those who were invited to the wedding; 
but they were not willing to come. 4 Again, he sent out other servants, 
saying, 'Tell those who are invited, "See, I have prepared my dinner; my 
oxen and fatted cattle are killed, and everything is ready. Come to the 
wedding.'" 5 But they made light of it and went off, one to his own farm, 
another to his business. 6 And the rest seized his servants, treated them 
shamefully, and killed them. 7 The king was enraged. He sent his army 
and destroyed those murderers and burned their city. 8 Then he said to his 
servants, 'The wedding is ready, but those who were invited were not 
worthy. 9 Go therefore to the highways, and invite to the marriage feast as 
many as you find.' 10 And those servants went out into the streets and 
gathered all whom they found, both bad and good; so the wedding hall 
was filled with guests. 11 But when the king came in to see the guests, he 
saw a man there who did not have on a wedding garment. 12 And he said 
to him, 'Friend, how did you get in here without a wedding garment?' 
And he was speechless. 13 Then the king said to the attendants, 'Bind 
him hand and foot, take him away, and cast him into the outer darkness; 
there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.' 14 For many are called, but 
few are chosen."
	15 Then the Pharisees went and took counsel how to entangle 
him in his talk. 16 And they sent their disciples to him, along with the 
Herodians, saying, "Teacher, we know that you are true, and teach the 
way of God in truth, and you care for no man; for you do not regard the 
position of men. 17 Tell us, then, what do you think? Is it lawful to pay 
taxes to Caesar, or not?" 18 But Jesus, aware of their malice, said, "Why 
are you testing me, you hypocrites? 19 Show me the money for the tax." 
And they brought him a denarius. 20 And he said to them, "Whose image 
and inscription is this?" 21 They said, "Caesar's." Then he said to them, 
"Render therefore to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the 
things that are God's." 22 When they heard it, they marveled; and they 
left him and went away. 
	23 That same day the Sadducees, who say there is no 
resurrection, came to him and asked him a question, 24 saying, "Teacher, 
Moses said that if a man dies, having no children, his brother must marry 
the widow, and raise up children for his brother. 25 Now there were seven 
brothers among us. The first one married and died, and having no 
children, he left his wife to his brother. 26 So the second also, and the 
third, down to the seventh. 27 After them all, the woman died. 28 
Therefore, in the resurrection, whose wife of the seven will she be? For 
they all had her." 29 But Jesus answered them, "You are wrong, because 
you do not know the Scriptures or the power of God. 30 For in the 
resurrection they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like 
angels in heaven. 31 But as for the resurrection of the dead, have you not 
read what was said to you by God, 32 'I am the God of Abraham, and the 
God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob'? He is not the God of the dead, but 
of the living." 33 And when the multitudes heard this, they were 
astonished at his teaching. 
	34 But when the Pharisees heard that he had silenced the 
Sadducees, they gathered together. 35 And one of them, a lawyer, asked 
him a question, to test him. 36 "Teacher, which is the great commandment 
in the Law?" 37 Jesus said to him, "'You shall love the Lord your God 
with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your mind.' 38 
This is the great and first commandment. 39 And the second is like it: 
'You shall love your neighbor as yourself.' 40 On these two 
commandments hang all the Law and the Prophets."
	41 While the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked 
them, 42 "What do you think about the Christ? Whose son is he?" They 
said to him, "The son of David." 43 He said to them, "How is it then that 
David, inspired by the Spirit, calls him 'Lord', saying, 
44	'The Lord said to my Lord, 
	"Sit at my right hand, 
		till I put your enemies under your feet"'? 
45 If David then calls him 'Lord,' how is he his son?" 46 And no one was 
able to answer him a word, nor from that day did any one dare to ask him 
any more questions. 
23
	1 Then Jesus said to the crowds and to his disciples, 2 "The 
scribes and the Pharisees sit in Moses' seat. 3 So you must observe and 
do whatever they tell you. But do not do what they do; for they preach, 
but do not practice. 4 They bind heavy burdens, hard to bear, and lay 
them on men's shoulders; but they themselves will not move them with 
their finger. 5 But they do all their works to be seen by men; for they 
make their phylacteries broad and the tassels of their garments long. 6 
And they love the place of honor at feasts and the best seats in the 
synagogues, 7 and greetings in the marketplaces, and to be called by men, 
'Rabbi.' 8 But you are not to be called 'Rabbi,' for you have only one 
Master, and you are all brethren. 9 And do not call anyone on earth your 
'Father,' for you have one Father, he who is in heaven. 10 Nor are you to 
be called 'Teacher,' for you have one Teacher, the Christ. 11 He who is 
greatest among you shall be your servant. 12 For whoever exalts himself 
will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be exalted. 
	13 "But woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you 
shut up the kingdom of heaven against men; for you neither enter 
yourselves, nor do you allow those who would enter to go in. 
	15 "Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you 
travel land and sea to win a single proselyte, and when he becomes one, 
you make him twice as much a son of hell as yourselves. 
	16 "Woe to you, blind guides, who say, 'If any one swears by the 
temple, it is nothing; but if any one swears by the gold of the temple, he is 
bound by his oath.' 17 You blind fools! For which is greater, the gold or 
the temple that has made the gold sacred? 18 And you say, 'If anyone 
swears by the altar, it means nothing; but if anyone swears by the gift that 
is on it, he is bound by his oath.' 19 You blind men! For which is greater, 
the gift or the altar that makes the gift sacred? 20 Therefore, he who 
swears by the altar swears by it and by everything on it. 21 And he who 
swears by the temple, swears by it and by him who dwells in it. 22 And he 
who swears by heaven, swears by the throne of God and by him who sits 
on it. 
	23 "Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you pay 
tithe of mint and dill and cummin, and have neglected the weightier 
matters of the Law, justice and mercy and faith. These you ought to have 
done, without neglecting the others. 24 You blind guides, who strain out 
a gnat and swallow a camel! 
	25 "Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you 
cleanse the outside of the cup and of the dish, but inside they are full of 
extortion and self-indulgence. 26 Blind Pharisee! First cleanse the inside 
of the cup and dish, that the outside of them may be clean also. 27 Woe to 
you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you are like whitewashed 
tombs which outwardly appear beautiful, but inside they are full of dead 
men's bones and all uncleanness. 28 Even so you also outwardly appear 
righteous to men, but inside you are full of hypocrisy and lawlessness. 
	29 "Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for you build 
the tombs of the prophets and adorn the monuments of the righteous, 30 
And you say, 'If we had lived in the days of our forefathers, we would not 
have taken part with them in shedding the blood of the prophets.' 31 Thus 
you witness against yourselves, that you are sons of those who murdered 
the prophets. 32 Fill up, then, the measure of your fathers' guilt. 33 You 
serpents! You brood of vipers, how are you to escape being sentenced to 
hell? 34 Therefore I send you prophets and wise men and scribes. Some 
of them you will kill and crucify, and some you will scourge in your 
synagogues and persecute from town to town, 35 that on you may come 
all the righteous blood shed on the earth, from the blood of righteous 
Abel to the blood of Zechariah, son of Berechiah, whom you murdered 
between the temple and the altar. 36 Truly, I say to you, all this will come 
upon this generation. 
	37 "O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, you who kill the prophets and stone 
those who are sent to you! How often I have longed to gather your 
children together, as a hen gathers her chicks under her wings, but you 
were not willing! 38 Behold, your house is left to you desolate. 39 For I 
tell you, you will not see me again, until you say, 'Blessed is he who 
comes in the name of the Lord.'"
24
	1 Jesus left the temple and was going away, when his disciples 
came up to point out to him the buildings of the temple. 2 But he 
answered them, "You see all these things, do you not? Truly, I say to you, 
there will not be left here one stone upon another, that will not be thrown 
down."
	3 Now as he sat on the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to 
him privately, saying, "Tell us, when will this be? And what will be the 
sign of your coming, and of the end of the age?" 4 And Jesus answered 
them: "Take heed that no one deceives you. 5 For many will come in my 
name, saying, 'I am the Christ,' and will deceive many. 6 And you will 
hear of wars and rumors of wars. See that you are not alarmed; for all 
these things must come to pass, but the end is not yet. 7 For nation will 
rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom, and there will be 
famines and earthquakes in various places. 8 All these are the beginning 
of birth pains. 9 Then they will deliver you up to tribulation, and put you 
to death; and you will be hated by all nations for my name's sake. 10 And 
then many will fall away, and will betray one another, and hate one 
another. 11 And many false prophets will rise up and deceive many. 12 
And because wickedness will increase, the love of most will grow cold. 
13 But he who endures to the end will be saved. 14 And this gospel of the 
kingdom will be preached in the whole world as a testimony to all 
nations, and then the end will come. 
	15 "So when you see standing in the holy place 'the abomination 
of desolation,' spoken of by the prophet Daniel (let the reader 
understand) 16 then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains. 17 
Let him who is on the housetop not go down to take anything out of his 
house. 18 And let him who is in the field not go back to get his clothes. 
19 But woe for those who are pregnant and for those who are nursing 
babies in those days! 20 Pray that your flight may not be in winter or on 
the Sabbath. 21 For then there will be great tribulation, such as has not 
been from the beginning of the world until now, no, and never will be. 22 
And if those days had not been shortened, no flesh would be saved; but 
for the sake of the elect those days will be shortened. 23 Then if any one 
says to you, 'Look, here is the Christ!' or 'There he is!' do not believe it. 
24 For false christs and false prophets will arise and show great signs and 
wonders to deceive, if possible, even the elect. 25 See, I have told you 
beforehand. 26 So if they say to you, 'There he is, out in the desert,' do 
not go out; or, 'Here he is, in the inner rooms,' do not believe it. 27 For 
as the lightning comes from the east and flashes to the west, so also will 
the coming of the Son of Man be. 28 Wherever the carcass is, there the 
eagles will be gathered together. 
	29 "Immediately after the tribulation of those days 
	the sun will be darkened, 
		and the moon will not give its light; 
	the stars will fall from heaven, 
		and the powers of the heavens will be shaken. 
30 Then the sign of the Son of Man will appear in heaven, and then all 
the tribes of the earth will mourn, and they will see the Son of Man 
coming on the clouds of heaven with power and great glory. 31 And he 
will send out his angels with a loud trumpet call, and they will gather 
together his elect from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the 
other. 
	32 "Now learn this lesson from the fig tree: as soon as its branch 
becomes tender and puts forth its leaves, you know that summer is near. 
33 So also, when you see all these things, you know that it is near, right 
at the door. 34 Truly, I say to you, this generation will not pass away till 
all these things take place. 35 Heaven and earth will pass away, but my 
words will not pass away. 
	36 "But of that day and hour no one knows, not even the angels 
of heaven, nor the Son, but the Father only. 37 But as the days of Noah 
were, so also will the coming of the Son of Man be. 38 For as in the days 
before the flood, they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in 
marriage, until the day that Noah entered the ark, 39 and they did not 
know until the flood came and took them all away, so also will the 
coming of the Son of Man be. 40 Then two men will be in the field; one 
will be taken and the other left. 41 Two women will be grinding at the 
mill; one will be taken and the other left. 42 Watch therefore, for you do 
not know on what day your Lord is coming. 43 But know this, that if the 
owner of the house had known at what time of the night the thief was 
coming, he would have watched and would not have let his house be 
broken into. 44 Therefore you also must be ready, for the Son of Man is 
coming at an hour you do not expect. 
	45 "Who then is the faithful and wise servant, whom his master 
has set over his household, to give them their food at the proper time? 46 
Blessed is that servant whom his master when he comes will find so 
doing. 47 Truly, I say to you, he will set him over all his possessions. 48 
But if that servant is wicked and says to himself, 'My master is staying 
away a long time,' 49 and he then begins to beat his fellow servants, and 
to eat and drink with the drunkards, 50 the master of that servant will 
come on a day when he does not expect him and at an hour he is not 
aware of, 51 and he will cut him to pieces and assign him a place with the 
hypocrites, where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. 
25
	1 "Then the kingdom of heaven shall be likened to ten virgins 
who took their lamps and went out to meet the bridegroom. 2 Five of 
them were foolish, and five were wise. 3 For when the foolish took their 
lamps, they took no oil with them; 4 but the wise took oil in their flasks 
with their lamps. 5 While the bridegroom was delayed, they all slumbered 
and slept. 6 But at midnight there was a cry: 'Behold, the bridegroom! 
Come out to meet him.' 7 Then all those virgins rose and trimmed their 
lamps. 8 And the foolish said to the wise, 'Give us some of your oil, for 
our lamps are going out.' 9 But the wise replied, 'No, there may not be 
enough for both us and you; go rather to those who sell oil and buy some 
for yourselves.' 10 And while they went to buy, the bridegroom came, and 
those who were ready went in with him to the wedding; and the door was 
shut. 11 Afterward the other virgins came also, saying, 'Lord, lord, open 
to us!'  12 But he replied, 'Truly, I say to you, I do not know you.' 13 
Therefore keep watch, for you know neither the day nor the hour. 
	14 "For it will be like a man going on a journey, who called his 
servants and entrusted his property to them. 15 To one he gave five 
talents, to another two, and to another one, to each according to his 
ability. Then he went on his journey. 16 He who had received the five 
talents went at once and traded with them; and he made five talents more. 
17 So also, he who had the two talents gained two more. 18 But he who 
had received the one talent went and dug in the ground, and hid his 
master's money. 19 Now after a long time the master of those servants 
came and settled accounts with them. 20 So he who had received the five 
talents came and brought five other talents, saying, 'Master, you delivered 
to me five talents; look, I have gained five more talents.' 21 His master 
said to him, 'Well done, good and faithful servant; you have been faithful 
over a few things, I will make you ruler over many things. Enter into the 
joy of your master.' 22 He also who had received the two talents came and 
said, 'Master, you delivered to me two talents; look, I have gained two 
more talents.' 23 His master said to him, 'Well done, good and faithful 
servant; you have been faithful over a few things, I will make you ruler 
over many things. Enter into the joy of your master.' 24 Then he who had 
received the one talent came and said, 'Master, I knew you to be a hard 
man, reaping where you have not sown, and gathering where you have not 
scattered seed. 25 So I was afraid, and went and hid your talent in the 
ground. Here you have what is yours.' 26 But his master answered him, 
'You wicked and lazy servant! You knew that I reap where I have not 
sown, and gather where I have not scattered seed? 27 Then you ought to 
have deposited my money with the bankers, and at my coming I would 
have received back my own with interest. 28 Therefore take the talent 
from him, and give it to him who has the ten talents. 29 For to every one 
who has will more be given, and he will have abundance; but from him 
who does not have, even what he has will be taken away. 30 And cast the 
worthless servant into the outer darkness. There will be weeping and 
gnashing of teeth.' 
	31 "When the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the angels 
with him, then he will sit on his glorious throne. 32 All the nations will 
be gathered before him, and he will separate them one from another as a 
shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. 33 And he will put the sheep 
on his right hand, but the goats on the left. 34 Then the King will say to 
those on his right hand, 'Come, you blessed of my Father, inherit the 
kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world: 35 for I was 
hungry and you gave me food, I was thirsty and you gave me drink, I was a 
stranger and you took me in, 36 I was naked and you clothed me, I was 
sick and you visited me, I was in prison and you came to me.' 37 Then the 
righteous will answer him, 'Lord, when did we see you hungry and feed 
you, or thirsty and give you drink? 38 When did we see you a stranger 
and take you in, or naked and clothe you? 39 When did we see you sick 
or in prison and go to visit you?' 40 And the King will answer them, 
'Truly, I say to you, as you did it to one of the least of these my brethren, 
you did it to me.'
	41 "Then he will say to those on his left hand, 'Depart from me, 
you who are cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his 
angels: 42 for I was hungry and you gave me no food, I was thirsty and 
you gave me no drink, 43 I was a stranger and you did not take me in, 
naked and you did not clothe me, sick and in prison and you did not visit 
me.' 44 Then they also will answer, 'Lord, when did we see you hungry or 
thirsty or a stranger or naked or sick or in prison, and did not minister to 
you?' 45 Then he will answer them, 'Truly, I say to you, as you did not do 
it to one of the least of these, you did not do it to me.'  46 And they will 
go away into eternal punishment, but the righteous into eternal life."
26
	1 When Jesus had finished all these sayings, he said to his 
disciples, 2 "You know that after two days is the Passover, and the Son of 
Man will be delivered up to be crucified." 3 Then the chief priests and the 
elders of the people assembled in the palace of the high priest, who was 
called Caiaphas, 4 and they plotted to arrest Jesus by stealth and kill him. 
5 But they said, "Not during the feast, lest there be a riot among the 
people."
	6 Now when Jesus was at Bethany in the house of Simon the 
leper, 7 a woman came up to him with an alabaster flask of very expensive 
perfume, and she poured it on his head as he sat at the table. 8 But when 
the disciples saw it, they were indignant, saying, "Why this waste? 9 For 
this perfume might have been sold for a high price and given to the poor." 
10 But Jesus, aware of this, said to them, "Why do you trouble the 
woman? For she has done a beautiful thing to me. 11 For you always have 
the poor with you, but you will not always have me. 12 For in pouring 
this perfume on my body, she did it to prepare me for burial. 13 Truly, I 
say to you, wherever this gospel is preached in the whole world, what she 
has done will also be told in memory of her."
	14 Then one of the twelve, who was called Judas Iscariot, went 
to the chief priests 15 and said, "What are you willing to give me if I 
deliver him to you?" And they counted out to him thirty pieces of silver. 
16 And from that moment he sought an opportunity to betray him. 
	17 Now on the first day of the Feast of Unleavened Bread, the 
disciples came to Jesus, saying, "Where do you want us to prepare for you 
to eat the Passover?" 18 He said, "Go into the city to a certain man, and 
say to him, 'The Teacher says, my time is at hand; I will keep the Passover 
at your house with my disciples.'" 19 So the disciples did as Jesus had 
directed them; and they prepared the Passover. 20 When evening had 
come, he sat at the table with the twelve. 21 And as they were eating, he 
said, "Truly, I say to you, one of you will betray me." 22 And they were 
very sorrowful, and began to say to him one after another, "Is it I, Lord?" 
23 He answered, "He who has dipped his hand in the dish with me will 
betray me. 24 The Son of Man goes just as it is written of him, but woe to 
that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed! It would have been better 
for that man if he had not been born." 25 Then Judas, who was betraying 
him, answered, "Rabbi, is it I?" He said to him, "You have said it."
	26 Now as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and blessed, and 
broke it, and gave it to the disciples and said, "Take, eat; this is my 
body." 27 Then he took the cup, and gave thanks, and gave it to them, 
saying, "Drink from it, all of you. 28 For this is my blood of the covenant, 
which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins. 29 I tell you, I 
will not drink of this fruit of the vine from now on until that day when I 
drink it new with you in my Father's kingdom." 30 And when they had 
sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives. 
	31 Then Jesus said to them, "You will all fall away because of 
me this night; for it is written, 
	'I will strike the shepherd, 
		and the sheep of the flock will be scattered.'
32 But after I have been raised, I will go before you to Galilee." 33 Peter 
declared to him, "Even if all fall away because of you, I will never fall 
away." 34 Jesus said to him, "Truly I say to you, this very night, before 
the rooster crows, you will deny me three times." 35 Peter said to him, 
"Even if I have to die with you, I will not deny you." And so said all the 
disciples. 
	36 Then Jesus went with his disciples to a place called 
Gethsemane, and he said to them, "Sit here while I go over there and 
pray." 37 He took Peter and the two sons of Zebedee along with him, and 
he began to be sorrowful and troubled. 38 Then he said to them, "My soul 
is exceedingly sorrowful, even to death. Stay here and watch with me." 39 
And going a little farther he fell on his face and prayed, "O my Father, if 
it is possible, let this cup pass from me; nevertheless, not as I will, but as 
you will." 40 Then he came to the disciples and found them sleeping; and 
he said to Peter, "So, could you not watch with me one hour? 41 Watch 
and pray, so that you will not enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is 
willing, but the flesh is weak." 42 Again, a second time, he went away 
and prayed, "O my Father, if this cup cannot pass away unless I drink it, 
your will be done." 43 And again he came and found them sleeping, for 
their eyes were heavy. 44 So he left them, went away again, and prayed 
the third time, saying the same words. 45 Then he came to the disciples 
and said to them, "Are you still sleeping and resting? Behold, the hour is 
at hand, and the Son of Man is being betrayed into the hands of sinners. 
46 Rise, let us be going; see, my betrayer is at hand."
	47 While he was still speaking, Judas came, one of the twelve, 
and with him a great crowd with swords and clubs, from the chief priests 
and the elders of the people. 48 Now the betrayer had given them a sign, 
saying, "The one I kiss is the man; seize him." 49 And at once he went up 
to Jesus and said, "Greetings, Rabbi!" and kissed him. 50 Jesus said to 
him, "Friend, why are you here?" Then they came up and laid hands on 
Jesus and seized him. 51 And suddenly, one of those who were with Jesus 
stretched out his hand and drew his sword, struck the servant of the high 
priest, and cut off his ear. 52 But Jesus said to him, "Put your sword back 
in its place, for all who take the sword will perish by the sword. 53 Do 
you think that I cannot appeal to my Father, and he will at once send me 
more than twelve legions of angels? 54 But how then could the Scriptures 
be fulfilled, that it must happen in this way?" 55 At that hour Jesus said 
to the crowds, "Have you come out as against a robber, with swords and 
clubs to capture me? Every day I sat in the temple teaching, and you did 
not seize me. 56 But all this has taken place, that the Scriptures of the 
prophets might be fulfilled." Then all the disciples forsook him and fled. 
	57 And those who had seized Jesus led him away to Caiaphas 
the high priest, where the scribes and the elders had assembled. 58 But 
Peter followed him at a distance, right up to the courtyard of the high 
priest. He entered and sat down with the guards to see the end. 59 Now 
the chief priests and the whole council sought false testimony against 
Jesus that they might put him to death, 60 but they found none, though 
many false witnesses came forward. At last two came forward 61 and said, 
"This fellow said, 'I am able to destroy the temple of God, and to build it 
in three days.'" 62 And the high priest stood up and said, "Have you no 
answer to make? What is it that these men testify against you?" 63 But 
Jesus remained silent. And the high priest said to him, "I charge you 
under oath by the living God: tell us if you are the Christ, the Son of 
God." 64 Jesus said to him, "It is as you said. But I say to you, 
	hereafter you will see the Son of Man 
		sitting at the right hand of the Power, 
		and coming on the clouds of heaven." 
65 Then the high priest tore his clothes and said, "He has spoken 
blasphemy! Why do we need any more witnesses? Look, now you have 
heard his blasphemy. 66 What do you think?" They answered, "He is 
worthy of death." 67 Then they spat in his face and struck him with their 
fists; and others slapped him, 68 saying, "Prophesy to us, Christ! Who is 
the one who struck you?"
	69 Now Peter was sitting outside in the courtyard, and a servant 
girl came to him and said, "You also were with Jesus of Galilee." 70 But 
he denied it before them all, saying, "I do not know what you are talking 
about."  71 And when he went out to the gateway, another girl saw him 
and said to the people there, "This fellow was with Jesus of Nazareth." 72 
But again he denied it with an oath, "I do not know the man!" 73 After a 
little while those who stood by came up and said to Peter, "Surely you are 
also one of them, for your accent betrays you." 74 Then he began to 
invoke a curse on himself and to swear, "I do not know the man." And 
immediately the rooster crowed. 75 And Peter remembered the word Jesus 
had said, "Before the rooster crows, you will deny me three times." So he 
went out and wept bitterly. 
27
	1 When morning came, all the chief priests and the elders of the 
people took counsel against Jesus to put him to death. 2 And they bound 
him, and led him away and delivered him to Pilate the governor. 
	3 When Judas, his betrayer, saw that he was condemned, he 
repented and brought back the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests 
and the elders, 4 saying, "I have sinned by betraying innocent blood." 
And they said, "What is that to us? You see to it!" 5 Then he threw down 
the pieces of silver in the temple and departed, and went and hanged 
himself. 6 But the chief priests took the silver pieces and said, "It is not 
lawful to put them into the treasury, since they are the money of blood." 7 
So they took counsel, and bought with them the potter's field, to bury 
strangers in. 8 Therefore that field has been called the Field of Blood to 
this day. 9 Then was fulfilled what was spoken by Jeremiah the prophet, 
saying, "And they took the thirty pieces of silver, the price of him on 
whom a price had been set by some of the sons of Israel, 10 and they gave 
them for the potter's field, as the Lord directed me." 
	11 Now Jesus stood before the governor, and the governor asked 
him, "Are you the king of the Jews?" So Jesus said to him, "It is as you 
say." 12 But when he was accused by the chief priests and elders, he 
made no answer. 13 Then Pilate said to him, "Do you not hear how many 
things they testify against you?" 14 But he gave him no answer, not even 
to a single charge; so that the governor wondered greatly. 
	15 Now at the feast the governor was accustomed to release for 
the crowd any one prisoner whom they wanted. 16 And at that time they 
had a notorious prisoner, called Barabbas. 17 So when they had gathered, 
Pilate said to them, "Whom do you want me to release for you, Barabbas 
or Jesus who is called Christ?" 18 For he knew it was out of envy that 
they had handed him over. 19 While he was sitting on the judgment seat, 
his wife sent word to him, "Have nothing to do with that righteous man, 
for I have suffered greatly today in a dream because of him." 20 But the 
chief priests and the elders persuaded the multitudes to ask for Barabbas 
and destroy Jesus. 21 The governor answered them, "Which of the two do 
you want me to release to you?" They said, "Barabbas!" 22 Pilate said to 
them, "Then what shall I do with Jesus who is called Christ?" They all 
said, "Let him be crucified!" 23 And he said, "Why, what evil has he 
done?" But they shouted all the more, "Let him be crucified!" 24 When 
Pilate saw that he was gaining nothing, but rather that a riot was starting, 
he took water and washed his hands before the crowd, saying, "I am 
innocent of this man's blood. See to it yourselves." 25 And all the people 
answered, "His blood be on us and on our children!" 26 Then he released 
Barabbas to them; and when he had scourged Jesus, he delivered him to 
be crucified. 
	27 Then the soldiers of the governor took Jesus into the 
Praetorium and gathered the whole garrison around him. 28 And they 
stripped him and put a scarlet robe on him, 29 and when they had twisted 
a crown of thorns, they put it on his head, and a reed in his right hand. 
And they bowed the knee before him and mocked him, saying, "Hail, 
King of the Jews!" 30 And they spat on him, and took the reed and struck 
him on the head. 31 And when they had mocked him, they took the robe 
off him, put his own clothes on him, and led him away to crucify him. 
	32 Now as they came out, they found a man of Cyrene, Simon by 
name, and they compelled him to carry his cross. 33 And when they came 
to a place called Golgotha (which means the place of a skull), 34 they 
offered him wine to drink, mingled with gall; but when he tasted it, he 
would not drink it. 35 And when they had crucified him, they divided his 
garments among them by casting lots; 36 and sitting down, they kept 
watch over him there. 37 And they put up over his head the charge written 
against him: 

THIS IS JESUS THE KING OF THE JEWS. 

38 Then two robbers were crucified with him, one on the right and one on 
the left. 39 And those who passed by hurled insults at him, wagging their 
heads 40 and saying, "You who would destroy the temple and build it in 
three days, save yourself! If you are the Son of God, come down from the 
cross." 41 So also the chief priests, with the scribes and elders, mocked 
him, saying, 42 "He saved others; he cannot save himself. He is the King 
of Israel; let him come down now from the cross, and we will believe in 
him. 43 He trusts in God; let God deliver him now, if he desires him; for 
he said, 'I am the Son of God.'" 44 And the robbers who were crucified 
with him also reviled him in the same way. 
	45 Now from the sixth hour until the ninth hour there was 
darkness over all the land. 46 And about the ninth hour Jesus cried out 
with a loud voice, "Eli, Eli, lama sabachthani?" that is, "My God, my 
God, why have you forsaken me?" 47 When some of those standing there 
heard this, they said, "This man is calling Elijah." 48 Immediately one of 
them ran and took a sponge, filled it with wine vinegar and put it on a 
reed, and offered it to him to drink. 49 The rest said, "Let him alone; let 
us see if Elijah will come to save him." 50 And Jesus cried out again with 
a loud voice, and yielded up his spirit. 51 And behold, the curtain of the 
temple was torn in two, from top to bottom; and the earth shook, and the 
rocks were split; 52 the tombs also were opened, and many bodies of the 
saints who had fallen asleep were raised, 53 and coming out of the tombs 
after his resurrection, they went into the holy city and appeared to many. 
54 So when the centurion and those with him, who were guarding Jesus, 
saw the earthquake and the things that had happened, they were terrified, 
and said, "Truly this was the Son of God!" 55 And many women were 
also there, looking on from afar, who had followed Jesus from Galilee, 
ministering to him; 56 among whom were Mary Magdalene, Mary the 
mother of James and Joses, and the mother of Zebedee's sons. 
	57 And when it was evening, there came a rich man from 
Arimathea, named Joseph, who had himself also become a disciple of 
Jesus. 58 He went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus. Then Pilate 
ordered it to be given to him. 59 When Joseph took the body, he wrapped 
it in a clean linen cloth, 60 and laid it in his own new tomb, which he had 
hewn out of the rock; and he rolled a great stone to the door of the tomb, 
and departed. 61 Mary Magdalene and the other Mary were sitting there 
opposite the tomb. 
	62 The next day, the one after the day of Preparation, the chief 
priests and the Pharisees gathered to Pilate 63 and said, "Sir, we 
remember how that deceiver said, while he was still alive, 'After three 
days I will rise again.'  64 Therefore order that the tomb be made secure 
until the third day, lest his disciples come by night and steal him away, 
and tell the people, 'He has risen from the dead.' So the last deception 
will be worse than the first." 65 Pilate said to them, "You have a guard; 
go your way, make it as secure as you know how." 66 So they went and 
made the tomb secure by sealing the stone and setting a guard. 
28
	1 Now after the Sabbath, as the first day of the week began to 
dawn, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to see the tomb. 2 And 
behold, there was a great earthquake; for an angel of the Lord descended 
from heaven, and came and rolled back the stone from the door, and sat 
on it. 3 His appearance was like lightning, and his clothes were white as 
snow. 4 And the guards shook for fear of him, and became like dead men. 
5 But the angel said to the women, "Do not be afraid, for I know that you 
seek Jesus who was crucified. 6 He is not here; for he has risen, as he 
said. Come, see the place where he lay. 7 Then go quickly and tell his 
disciples that he has risen from the dead. And behold, he is going before 
you to Galilee; there you will see him. Behold, I have told you." 8 So they 
departed quickly from the tomb with fear and great joy, and ran to tell his 
disciples. 9 And behold, Jesus met them and said, "Hail!" And they came 
to him and took hold of his feet and worshipped him. 10 Then Jesus said 
to them, "Do not be afraid. Go and tell my brethren to go to Galilee; and 
there they will see me."
	11 Now while they were going, behold, some of the guard went 
into the city and reported to the chief priests all the things that had 
happened. 12 When they had assembled with the elders and consulted 
together, they gave a large sum of money to the soldiers, 13 and said, 
"Tell them, 'His disciples came by night and stole him away while we 
were asleep.' 14 And if this comes to the governor's ears, we will satisfy 
him and keep you out of trouble." 15 So they took the money and did as 
they were instructed; and this story has been spread among the Jews to 
this day. 
	16 Then the eleven disciples went to Galilee, to the mountain 
which Jesus had appointed for them. 17 When they saw him, they 
worshipped him; but some doubted. 18 And Jesus came and said to them, 
"All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. 19 Go 
therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of 
the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, 20 teaching them to 
observe all that I have commanded you; and behold, I am with you always, 
even to the end of the age."




Matthew, page 2
