The following are known errors in the book Data Parallel C++: Mastering DPC++ for
Programming of Heterogeneous Systems using C++ and SYCL by James Reinders, Ben Ashbaugh,
James Brodman, Michael Kinsner, John Pennycook, Xinmin Tian (Apress, 2020).

p.183 - Fig. 7-6 - In the first column, there should be no capitalization,
                   therefore "Write" should be "write"
                   and "read_Write" should be "read_write"

p.284 - The line "if (dev.is_host()) score += 100;" will need
        deleting when implementations drop support for a host_device (see
        errata below regarding changes in the SYCL 2020 specification that we
        did not anticipate in the book.)  The accompanying text needs to
	consider the implications of such a change: without it, it is possible
	that this device selector will fail to find a device.

p.421 - Fig 17-1 - The text at the top should be “ISA-based” instead of “SA-based”


SYCL 2020 was finalized after the book went to press.  The largest
change, which was not anticipated in the book, was the dropping of the
host device.

    This is a good thing, but we explained and promoted the host device
    which is not longer part of the specification.  We advise against
    usign a host device, because long term we expect it will disappear
    from all SYCL compilers.
    
    The SYCL 2020 specification, has an Appendix on "what changed," that
    explains it as this:
        A SYCL implementation is no longer required to provide a host
        device. Instead, an implementation is only required to provide at
        least one device. Implementations are still allowed to provide devices
        that are implemented on the host, but it is no longer required. The
        specification no longer defines any special semantics for a "host
        device" and APIs specific to the host device have been removed.  The
        default constructors for the device and platform classes have been
        changed to construct a copy of the default device and a copy of the
        platform containing the default device. Previously, they returned a
        copy of the host device and a copy of the platform containing the host
        device. The default constructor for the event class has also been
        changed to construct an event that comes from a default-constructed
        queue. Previously, it constructed an event that used the host backend.
    
    Here is a quick explanation of how to interpret the book in light of
    this change:
    
    Chapter 2: Method #2 discusses "running device code on the host, which
    is often used for debugging."  Broadly speaking, the usual answer is
    to request a CPU device to get this behavior.  We say broadly, because
    what you really want is a device that supports the best debugging.  In
    all implementation that we are aware of, this will be a CPU.  However,
    SYCL does not guarantee that any device on a given system will support
    advanced debugging.  The environment where this will occur most
    frequently is an embedded systems enviroment.  When developing in such
    an environment, it is not uncommon to have diminished debugging
    options and often have a different system entirely for debugging.
    Regardless, the best debugging environment is what we seek in Method
    #2 in Chapter 2.  Unless we know better, we would expect that would be
    from a CPU device.
    
    Chapter 2: "The host device is guaranteed to be always avaialble on
    any system." This is no longer true - the some what "magical" host
    device is not longer in the SYCL specification.  Instead all devices
    have properties that can be queried, and SYCL only guarantees that one
    device must be offered on a system.  We'll note, just to be annoying,
    that if you don't install any drivers your program can still fail at
    runtime because effectively no device will be present.  This is
    because the guarantee only holds for a properly setup system
    supporting SYCL.
    
    Chapter 12: mentioned host device, and for the same reasons explained
    for Chapter 2, the general answer here is to request a CPU device with
    the caveat that there may not be such a device. In Figures 12-2 and
    12-3, the "host_selector()" would need to be changed to
    "cpu_selector()" but that will lose the quality of always being
    guaranteed to work.
    
    
    Chapter 13: Mentioned host device as well, so the guarantee mentioned
    on page 299 is no longer correct - as we have mentioned already in
    this errata.  The mention of "Method#2" from Chapter 2, that is foudn
    on pages 305 and 306 (Chapter 13) needs to consider the errata for
    Chapter 2 we have already covered.
    
    
    Chapter 19, page 496, "host device" is now "CPU device."
    
    Chapter 19, page 511, "(i.e., a host device...)" can just be ignored.
    
    Chapter 19, page 513, "host device is required to support all memory
    orderings." There is no device with has this requirement any more,
    although generally CPU device will have this quality. Properties of a
    device must be queried to determine what is actually supported.


An additional subtle change was spliting sycl::vec into sycl::vec and sycl::marray.
This is a very good thing, and makes vec better.

    The SYCL 2020 specification, has an Appendix on "what changed," that
    explains it as this:
    
        A new math array type marray has been defined to begin disambiguation
        of the multiple possible interpretations of how sycl::vec should be
        interpreted and implemented.

     In the book, we anticipated this coming since parts were in the
     early drafts for SYCL 2020, and we tried to avoid covering it in
     a way that would become invalid. We succeeded on that, but it
     means that we really didn't dive into it as deeply as we could
     have.  Of course the book was probably long enough!  In the book
     we simply said: "the need for this section of the book (talking
     about interpretations of vectors) highlights that there is
     confusion on what a vector means, and that will be solved in sYCL
     in the future. There is a hint of this in the SYCL 2020
     provisional specification where a math array type (marray) has
     been described, which is explicitly the first interpretation from
     this section—a convenience type unrelated to vector hardware
     instructions. We should expect another type to also eventually
     appear to cover the second interpretation, likely aligned with
     the C++ std::simd templates. With these two types being clearly
     associated with specific interpretations of a vector data type,
     our intent as programmers will be clear from the code that we
     write. this will be less error prone and less confusing and may
     even reduce the number of heated discussions between expert
     developers when the question arises “What is a vector?”
     
     So, we hope to write more about that in the future.  Stay tuned, we'll
     add a note here is we expand upon this in a future blog.
